EBA/GL/2017/06
12 May 2017
Final Report
Guidelines on credit institutions’ credit risk management practices
and accounting for expected credit losses

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Contents
1. Executive Summary                                                                            4
2. Background and rationale                                                                     7
Guidelines                                                                                     11
on credit institutions’ credit risk management practices and accounting for expected credit
losses                                                                                         11
1. Compliance and reporting obligations                                                        12
2. Subject matter, scope, addressees and definitions                                           13
3. Implementation                                                                              16
4. Guidelines on credit risk management practices and accounting for expected credit losses 17
4.1 General provisions                                                                         17
4.2 Principles on credit risk management practices and accounting for expected credit losses 18
4.3 Guidelines specific to credit institutions applying IFRS 9                                 36
4.4 Supervisory evaluation of credit risk practices, accounting for expected credit losses and
capital adequacy                                                                               49
5. Accompanying documents                                                                      53
5.1     Cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment                                                53
5.2     Feedback on the public consultation                                                    65
                                                                                                2

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                          3

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
1. Executive Summary
These guidelines are issued pursuant to Article 16(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 on the
EBA’s own initiative in order to ensure common, uniform and consistent application of Union law
and to establish consistent, efficient and effective supervisory practices within the European
System of Financial Supervision (‘ESFS’).
A significant number of credit institutions apply the International Financial Reporting Standards®
(‘IFRS® Standards’) as these are incorporated into the EU legal framework through EU regulations,
in accordance with the procedures set out in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 1. IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments (‘IFRS 9’), which will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement (‘IAS 39’), for the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 2 ,
requires the measurement of impairment loss allowances to be based on an expected credit loss
(‘ECL’) accounting model rather than on an incurred loss accounting model.
The EBA welcomes the move from an incurred loss model to an ECL model under IFRS 9 3. IFRS 9 is,
overall, an improvement compared with IAS 39 in the accounting for financial instruments, and
the changes to credit loss provisioning should contribute to addressing the G20’s concerns about
the issue of ‘too little, too late’ recognition of credit losses, and improve the accounting
recognition of loan loss provisions by incorporating a broader range of credit information. IFRS 9
is therefore expected to address some prudential concerns and contribute to financial stability.
However, the application of IFRS 9 also requires the use of judgement in the ECL assessment and
measurement process, which could potentially affect the consistent application of IFRS 9 across
credit institutions and the comparability of credit institutions’ financial statements.
In December 2015, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (‘BCBS’) issued supervisory
guidance on credit risk and accounting for expected credit losses 4 (the ‘BCBS guidance’), which
sets out supervisory expectations for credit institutions related to sound credit risk practices
associated with implementing and applying an ECL accounting model. In addition, it contains an
Annex specific to jurisdictions applying IFRS.
Building on the BCBS guidance, these guidelines aim at ensuring sound credit risk management
practices for credit institutions, associated with the implementation and ongoing application of
ECL accounting models. The existence of supervisory guidance emphasises the importance of
1
  Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of
international accounting standards (OJ L 243, 11.9.2002, p. 1).
2
  Commission Regulation (EU) No 2016/2067 of 22 November 2016 amending Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008 adopting
certain international accounting standards in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European
Parliament and of the Council as regards International Financial Reporting Standards 9.
3
  Letter to the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (‘EFRAG’) of 26 June 2015 with EBA’s views on the
adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
(http://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/943157/Letter+to+EFRAG+Board+on+IFRS+9+endorsement.pdf).
4
  Guidance on accounting for expected credit losses (http://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d350.pdf).
                                                                                                                4

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
high-quality and consistent application of IFRS 9 and could help to promote consistent
interpretations and practices. The objective of the EBA guidelines is to be in line with the BCBS
guidance. The EBA guidelines would not prevent credit institutions from meeting the impairment
requirements in IFRS 9.
These guidelines should be read in conjunction with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 575/2013
and Directive 2013/36/EU regarding internal governance, credit risk, disclosures, supervisory
review and evaluation process and requirements, and supervisory measures and powers, as
supplemented by the relevant technical standards adopted by the Commission and as further
developed by the technical standards and guidelines issued by the EBA.
The guidelines include four main sections as follows:
<U+F0A7>   Section 4.1 includes some general considerations on the application of the principles of
    proportionality and materiality, and the use of information by credit institutions.
<U+F0A7>   Section 4.2 includes eight principles, also addressed to credit institutions, which relate to the
    provisions for the main elements of credit risk management and accounting for ECL, and
    provide detailed guidance for the application of each principle.
<U+F0A7>   Section 4.3 includes guidance specific to credit institutions reporting under IFRS and is limited
    to providing guidance on certain aspects of the ECL requirements in the impairment section of
    IFRS 9 that may not be common to other ECL accounting frameworks.
<U+F0A7>   Section 4.4 includes three principles, specifically addressed to competent authorities, on the
    supervisory evaluation of credit risk management practices, accounting for ECL and the overall
    capital adequacy.
In addition, these guidelines should be applied with the principle of proportionality in mind. The
EBA notes that all credit institutions applying IFRS 9 should ensure that they meet the objectives
of IFRS 9 when applying the standard. Credit institutions should comply with these guidelines in a
proportionate manner taking into account various criteria, such as their size and internal
organisation and the nature, scope and complexity of their activities and portfolios, as described
in paragraph 17 of the guidelines. Credit institutions should, however, take into consideration if
using practical expedients that the objective of IFRS 9 is to measure ECL to reflect an unbiased
and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes
(IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.17).
The draft guidelines were subject to a three-month consultation period between July 2016 and
October 2016. The EBA received 17 responses to the draft guidelines, overall supporting the
content of the draft guidelines, subject to additional clarifications mainly on the application of the
proportionality principle, the scope of application of the guidelines and the use of practical
expedients. The EBA assessed the arguments presented in the responses in order to decide
whether any amendments were necessary before issuing the final guidelines. The result of this
assessment is included in the feedback section of this paper.
                                                                                                     5

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Next steps
The guidelines will be translated into the official EU languages and published on the EBA website.
The deadline for competent authorities to report whether they comply with the guidelines will be
two months after the publication of the translations. The guidelines will apply at the start of the
first accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
                                                                                                  6

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
2. Background and rationale
Legal basis and scope of the guidelines
1. These guidelines are issued pursuant to Article 16(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 5 on the
    EBA’s own initiative in order to ensure common, uniform and consistent application of Union law
    and to establish consistent, efficient and effective supervisory practices within the ESFS.
2. In particular, Article 74 of Directive 2013/36/EU 6 requires credit institutions to have ‘adequate
    internal control mechanisms, including sound administration and accounting procedures ... that
    are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management’. Article 79(1) of
    Directive 2013/36/EU requires competent authorities to ensure that ‘(b) institutions have internal
    methodologies that enable them to assess the credit risk of exposures to individual obligors … and
    credit risk at the portfolio level’ and ‘(c) the ongoing administration and monitoring of the various
    risk-bearing portfolios and exposures of institutions, including for identifying and managing
    problem credits and for making adequate value adjustments and provisions, is operated through
    effective systems’. Article 88(1)(b) of Directive 2013/36/EU also includes the principle that ‘the
    management body must ensure the integrity of the accounting and financial reporting systems,
    including financial and operational controls and compliance with the law and relevant standards’.
    In accordance with Article 97(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU, competent authorities must review the
    arrangements, strategies, processes and mechanisms implemented by institutions to comply with
    that Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 7. In this regard, Article 104(1) of Directive
    2013/36/EU enumerates the minimum powers that competent authorities must have, including
    the power ‘to require the reinforcement of the arrangements, processes, mechanisms and
    strategies implemented in accordance with Articles 73 and 74’ (Article 104(1)(b)), ‘to require
    institutions to apply a specific provisioning policy or treatment of assets in terms of own funds
    requirements’ (Article 104(1)(d)).
3. High-quality and consistent application of accounting standards are the basis for the effective and
    consistent application of regulatory capital requirements.
4. Accounting frameworks are commonly principles-based and credit institutions should exercise
    judgement when applying the standards, with the objective of providing useful financial
    information to the users. In this regard, the use of judgement plays a fundamental role in some
    areas of accounting. For this reason, it is important for banking and market authorities to promote
5
  Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing
Commission Decision 2009/78/EC, (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12).
6
  Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit
institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and
repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
7
  Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements
for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1-337).
                                                                                                                         7

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
    a high-quality and consistent application of the accounting standards, which would also improve
    the comparability of the financial statements across institutions.
5. In addition, a significant number of credit institutions apply the IFRS Standards as these are
    incorporated into the EU legal framework through EU Regulations, in accordance with the
    procedures set out in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002. IFRS 9, which will replace IAS 39 for the
    accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 8 , requires the measurement of
    impairment loss provisions to be based on an ECL accounting model rather than on an incurred
    loss accounting model.
6. The EBA welcomes the move from an incurred loss model to an ECL model under IFRS 9 9. IFRS 9 is,
    overall, an improvement compared with IAS 39 in the accounting for financial instruments, and
    the changes to credit loss provisioning should contribute to addressing the G20’s concerns about
    the issue of ‘too little, too late’ recognition of credit losses, and improve the accounting
    recognition of loan loss provisions by incorporating a broader range of credit information.
7. The ECL model should result in the earlier recognition of credit losses. In this respect, IFRS 9 is
    expected to address some prudential concerns and contribute to financial stability. In addition,
    consideration of forward-looking information, including macroeconomic factors, is a distinctive
    feature of an ECL model and is critical for the timely recognition of credit losses. The ECL model is
    also more aligned with existing regulatory practices (for credit institutions using an internal
    ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach) which require the calculation of expected credit losses rather than
    incurred credit losses in order to determine institutions’ regulatory capital requirements.
8. However, the application of IFRS 9 also requires the use of judgement in the ECL assessment and
    measurement process, which could potentially affect the consistent application of IFRS 9 across
    institutions and the comparability of credit institutions’ financial statements. Therefore, the
    existence of supervisory guidance emphasises the importance of high-quality and consistent
    application of IFRS 9 and could help to promote consistent interpretations and practices.
9. In December 2015, the BCBS issued supervisory guidance on credit risk and accounting for
    expected credit losses 10, which sets out supervisory expectations for credit institutions related to
    sound credit risk practices associated with implementing and applying an ECL accounting model.
    In addition, it contains an Annex specific to jurisdictions applying IFRS.
10.As indicated in the BCBS guidance, sound credit risk practices provide the basis for a high-quality,
    robust and consistent implementation of an ECL accounting model in accordance with the
    applicable accounting framework, and they support appropriate measures of capital adequacy.
8
  Commission Regulation (EU) No 2016/2067 of 22 November 2016 amending Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008 adopting
certain international accounting standards in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament
and of the Council as regards International Financial Reporting Standards 9.
9
  Letter to the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (‘EFRAG’) of 26 June 2015 with EBA’s views on the adoption of
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
(http://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/943157/Letter+to+EFRAG+Board+on+IFRS+9+endorsement.pdf).
10
   Guidance on accounting for expected credit losses (http://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d350.pdf).
                                                                                                                        8

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
11. Recognising that credit institutions may have well-established regulatory capital models for the
    measurement of expected losses, these models may be used as a starting point for estimating ECL
    for accounting purposes; however, regulatory capital models may not be directly usable in the
    measurement of accounting ECL because of differences between the objectives of, and inputs
    used for, each of these purposes.
12.As with all EBA guidelines, these guidelines should be read holistically with the understanding that
    the examples provided are not all-inclusive and that a checklist approach to applying these
    guidelines is not intended. While these guidelines are to be applied for the assessment of credit
    risk from, and the measurement of ECL on, lending exposures under the applicable accounting
    framework, they do not set out principles and expectations targeted at specific categories of loans
    such as corporate, retail and project finance. In this regard, certain aspects of the guidelines may
    be more applicable to the individual credit assessment of a large corporate borrower, while other
    aspects may be more relevant to collective assessments of a particular group of retail customers.
Objective of the guidelines
13.Building on the BCBS guidance, these guidelines aim at ensuring sound credit risk management
    practices for credit institutions, associated with the implementation and ongoing application of
    ECL accounting models. Furthermore, they set out the supervisory expectations for credit
    institutions related to sound credit risk practices associated with implementing and applying an
    ECL accounting model.
14.In particular, on the considerations on proportionate application of the EBA guidelines, the EBA
    notes that all credit institutions applying IFRS 9 should ensure that they meet the objectives of
    IFRS 9 when applying the standard. However, the EBA understands that the way of meeting these
    objectives may differ across credit institutions; for example, different techniques or models may
    be used in the measurement of ECL. Credit institutions should comply with these guidelines in a
    proportionate manner taking into account various criteria, such as their size and internal
    organisation and the nature, scope and complexity of their activities and portfolios, as described
    in paragraph 17 of the guidelines. Credit institutions should, however, take into consideration if
    using practical expedients that the objective of IFRS 9 is to estimate ECL to reflect an unbiased and
    probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes
    (IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.17)
15.The EBA guidelines would not prevent a credit institution from meeting the impairment
    requirements of IFRS 9 and the BCBS guidance. Rather, these guidelines should be read as the
    supervisory approach to support the appropriate application of those standards.
16.These guidelines should be read in conjunction with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 575/2013
    and Directive 2013/36/EU regarding internal governance, credit risk, disclosures, supervisory
    review and evaluation process and requirements, and supervisory measures and powers, as
    supplemented by the relevant technical standards adopted by the Commission (in particular, the
                                                                                                        9

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
    implementing technical standards (ITS) on forbearance and non-performing exposures 11), and as
    further developed by guidelines (in particular, the EBA Guidelines on common procedures and
    methodologies for the supervisory review and evaluation process (SREP) 12, the EBA Guidelines on
    internal governance 13, and the EBA Guidelines on materiality, proprietary and confidentiality and
    on disclosure frequency 14, among others).
11
   See also Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/227 of 9 January 2015 amending Implementing Regulation (EU)
No 680/2014 laying down implementing technical standards with regard to supervisory reporting of institutions according
to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 41, 20.2.2015, p. 1) which establishes
specific definitions of forbearance and non-performing exposures.
12
   EBA GL/2014/13.
13
   GL 44.
14
   EBA GL/2014/14.
                                                                                                                      10

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
EBA/GL/2017/06
Guidelines
on credit institutions’ credit risk
management practices and accounting
for expected credit losses
                                                          11

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
1. Compliance and reporting
obligations
Status of these guidelines
1. This document contains guidelines issued pursuant to Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
     No 1093/2010 15 . In accordance with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010,
     competent authorities and financial institutions must make every effort to comply with the
     guidelines.
2. Guidelines set the EBA view of appropriate supervisory practices within the European System
     of Financial Supervision (ESFS) or of how Union law should be applied in a particular area.
     Competent authorities as defined in Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 to whom
     guidelines apply should comply by incorporating them into their practices as appropriate (e.g.
     by amending their legal framework or their supervisory processes), including where guidelines
     are directed primarily at institutions.
Reporting requirements
3. According to Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent authorities must
     notify the EBA as to whether they comply or intend to comply with these guidelines, or
     otherwise with reasons for non-compliance, by ([dd.mm.yyyy]). In the absence of any
     notification by this deadline, competent authorities will be considered by the EBA to be non-
     compliant. Notifications should be sent by submitting the form available on the EBA website
     to compliance@eba.europa.eu with the reference ‘EBA/GL/2017/06’. Notifications should be
     submitted by persons with appropriate authority to report compliance on behalf of their
     competent authorities. Any change in the status of compliance must also be reported to the
     EBA.
4. Notifications will be published on the EBA website, in line with Article 16(3).
15
   Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing
Commission Decision 2009/78/EC, (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12).
                                                                                                             12

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
2. Subject matter, scope, addressees
and definitions
Subject matter
5. These guidelines specify sound credit risk management practices for credit institutions
     associated with the implementation and ongoing application of expected credit loss (‘ECL’)
     accounting frameworks.
6. These guidelines also provide competent authorities with guidance on evaluating the
     effectiveness of an institution’s credit risk management practices, policies, processes and
     procedures that affect allowance levels.
Scope of application
7. These guidelines apply in relation to those credit institutions’ credit risk management
     practices affecting the assessment of credit risk and measurement of expected credit losses
     from lending exposures and allowances under the applicable accounting framework. These
     guidelines also apply when, where permitted by the applicable accounting framework, the
     carrying amount of the lending exposure is reduced directly without the use of an allowance
     account. These guidelines do not set out any additional requirements regarding the
     determination of expected loss for regulatory capital purposes.
8. These guidelines build on Article 74 of Directive 2013/36/EU 16 which states that institutions
     must have adequate internal control mechanisms, including sound administration and
     accounting procedures that are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk
     management; and Article 79(b) and (c) of that Directive, which states that competent
     authorities must ensure that institutions have internal methodologies that enable them to
     assess the credit risk of exposures to individual obligors and at the portfolio level, and
     effective systems for the ongoing administration and monitoring of the various credit risk-
     bearing portfolios and exposures, including for identifying and managing problem credits and
     for making adequate value adjustments and provisions, respectively. In addition,
     Article 88(1)(b) of Directive 2013/36/EU states the principle that ‘the management body must
     ensure the integrity of the accounting and financial reporting systems, including financial and
     operational controls and compliance with the law and relevant standards’. Finally, as specified
     in Article 104(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU, competent authorities may apply supervisory
     measures including requiring credit institutions to reinforce of the arrangements, processes,
16
   Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of
credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending
Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
                                                                                                               13

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     mechanisms and strategies implemented in accordance with Articles 73 and 74
     (Article 104(1)(b)), the application of a specific provisioning policy or treatment of assets in
     terms of own funds requirements (Article 104(1)(d)).
9. Guidelines set out in section 4.3 only apply in relation to credit institutions which prepare
     their financial statements in conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards®
     (‘IFRS® Standards’) adopted in accordance with Regulation (CE) 1606/2002 17 and for which
     IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (‘IFRS 9’) applies.
10. For credit institutions to which ECL accounting frameworks do not apply, competent
     authorities should consider applying the relevant aspects of these guidelines related to credit
     risk management practices, as far as appropriate, within the context of the applicable
     accounting framework.
11. Competent authorities should ensure that credit institutions comply with these guidelines on
     an individual, sub-consolidated and consolidated basis in accordance with Article 109 of
     Directive 2013/36/EU.
12. Guidelines set out in section 4.4 should be considered as supplementing and further
     specifying the supervisory review and evaluation process (SREP) referred to in Article 97 and
     107(1)(a) of Directive 2013/36/EU, in particular with regard to the assessment of credit risk
     management and controls and accounting for expected credit losses. Competent authorities
     should therefore comply with guidelines set out in section 4.4 in line with the EBA Guidelines
     on common procedures and methodologies for the supervisory review and evaluation process
     (SREP) 18.
Addressees
13. These guidelines are addressed to competent authorities as defined in point (i) of Article 4(2)
     of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
14. Guidelines set out in sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 are also addressed to credit institutions as
     defined in Article 4(1)(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 19.
17
   Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of
international accounting standards (OJ L 243, 11.9.2002, p. 1).
18
   EBA GL/2014/13.
19
   Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential
requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176,
27.6.2013, p. 1-337).
                                                                                                                14

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Definitions
15. Unless otherwise specified, terms used and defined in Directive 2013/36/EU, Regulation
     (EU) 575/2013 and IFRS 9 have the same meaning in the guidelines. In addition, for the
     purposes of these guidelines, the following definitions apply:
                                                                    Means the stock of lending exposure loan loss
                                                                    provisions that has been recognised in the
Allowances                                                          balance sheet of the credit institution, in
                                                                    accordance with the applicable accounting
                                                                    framework.
                                                                    Means loans, loan commitments and financial
Lending exposures                                                   guarantee contracts to which an ECL
                                                                    framework applies 20.
                                                                    Means adjustments to an allowance used to
                                                                    account for circumstances when it becomes
                                                                    evident that existing or expected risk factors
Temporary adjustments to an allowance
                                                                    have not been considered in the credit risk
                                                                    rating and modelling process as of the
                                                                    reporting date.
20
   The scope of the EBA guidelines may be different than the scope of the impairment requirements under the applicable accounting
framework. For example, the scope of the EBA guidelines is narrower than the scope under IFRS 9.
                                                                                                                             15

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
3. Implementation
Date of application
16. These guidelines should be implemented at the start of the first accounting period beginning
     on or after 1 January 2018.
                                                                                              16

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
4. Guidelines on credit risk
management practices and accounting
for expected credit losses
4.1 General provisions
    4.1.1           Application of the principles of proportionality, materiality and symmetry
17. Credit institutions should comply with these guidelines in a manner that is appropriate to
     their size and internal organisation and the nature, scope and complexity of their activities
     and portfolios, and, more generally, all other relevant facts and circumstances of the credit
     institution (and the group (if any) to which it belongs). The use of properly designed
     proportionate approaches should not jeopardise the high-quality implementation of the ECL
     accounting frameworks.
18. Credit institutions should also give due consideration to the application of the principle of
     materiality. However, this should not result in individual exposures or portfolios being
     considered immaterial if, cumulatively, these represent a material exposure to the credit
     institution. In addition, materiality should not be assessed only on the basis of the potential
     impact on the profit or loss statement at the reporting date. For instance, large portfolio(s) of
     lending exposures such as real estate mortgages would generally be considered material even
     if they are highly collateralised.
19. In considering how to take proportionality or materiality into account in the design of an ECL
     methodology or in its implementation, it is important to ensure that bias is not being
     introduced.
20. The timely recognition of credit deterioration and allowances should not be delayed without
     prejudice to the fact that ECL accounting frameworks are symmetrical in the way that
     subsequent changes (both deteriorations and reversals of those deteriorations) in the credit
     risk profile of a debtor should be considered in the measurement of the allowances.
    4.1.2           Consideration of reasonable and supportable information
21. Credit institutions should consider a wide range of information when applying ECL accounting
     models. Information considered should be relevant to the assessment of credit risk and
     measurement of ECL of the particular lending exposure being assessed, and should include
     information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic
     conditions. Information which is ultimately included in the assessment of credit risk and
     measurement of ECL should also be reasonable and supportable. Credit institutions should
     use their experienced credit judgement in determining the range of relevant information that
                                                                                                   17

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     should be considered and in determining whether information is considered to be reasonable
     and supportable. Reasonable and supportable information should be based on relevant facts
     and sound judgement.
    4.1.3           Consideration of forward-looking information
22. In order to ensure a timely recognition of credit losses, credit institutions should consider
     forward-looking information, including macroeconomic factors. When considering forward-
     looking information, credit institutions should apply sound judgement consistent with
     generally accepted methods for economic analysis and forecasting, and supported by a
     sufficient set of data.
23. Credit institutions should be able to demonstrate how they have considered relevant,
     reasonable and supportable information in the ECL assessment and measurement process.
     Credit institutions should apply experienced credit judgement in the consideration of future
     scenarios and take into account the potential consequence of events occurring or not
     occurring, and the resulting impact on the measurement of ECL. Information should not be
     excluded from that process simply because an event has a low likelihood of occurring or the
     effect of that event on the credit risk or the amount of expected credit losses is uncertain. In
     certain circumstances information relevant to the assessment and measurement of credit risk
     may not be reasonable and supportable and should therefore be excluded from the ECL
     assessment and measurement process. Given that these circumstances would be exceptional
     in nature, credit institutions should provide a clearly documented, robust justification.
24. The information used shall include an unbiased consideration of relevant factors and their
     impact on creditworthiness and cash shortfalls. Relevant factors include those intrinsic to the
     bank and its business or derived from external conditions.
4.2 Principles on credit risk management practices and
accounting for expected credit losses
    4.2.1           Principle 1 — Management body and senior management responsibilities
The management body 21 and senior management of a credit institution are responsible for
ensuring that the credit institution has appropriate credit risk management practices, including an
effective internal control system, to consistently determine adequate allowances in accordance
with the credit institution’s stated policies and procedures, the applicable accounting framework
and relevant supervisory guidance.
21
   Various management body structures can be observed in EU Member States. In some Member States a single-tier
structure is common, i.e. supervisory and management functions of the management body are exercised within a single
body. In other Member States a two-tier structure is common, with two independent bodies being established, one for
the management function and the other for the supervision of the management function.
                                                                                                                18

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
25. The credit institution’s management body should be responsible for approving and regularly
     reviewing a credit institution’s credit risk management strategy and the main policies and
     processes for identifying, measuring, evaluating, monitoring, reporting and mitigating credit
     risk consistent with the approved risk appetite set by the management body. In addition, to
     limit the risk that lending exposures pose to depositors and, more generally, financial stability,
     a credit institution’s management body should require that senior management adopt and
     adhere to sound underwriting practices 22.
26. To fulfil these responsibilities, the management body should instruct senior management to:
a. develop and maintain appropriate processes, which should be systematic and consistently
     applied, to determine appropriate allowances in accordance with the applicable accounting
     framework;
b. establish and implement an effective internal control system for credit risk assessment and
     measurement; report periodically the results of the credit risk assessment and measurement
     processes, including estimates of its ECL allowances;
c. establish, implement and, as necessary, update suitable policies and procedures to
     communicate the credit risk assessment and measurement process internally to all relevant
     staff, in particular staff members who are involved in that process.
    Senior management should be responsible for implementing the credit risk strategy approved
    by the management body and developing the aforementioned policies and processes.
27. An effective internal control system for credit risk assessment and measurement should
     include:
a. measures to comply with applicable laws, regulations, internal policies and procedures;
b. measures to provide oversight of the integrity of information used and reasonably ensure that
     the allowances reflected in the credit institution’s financial statements and reports submitted
     to the competent authority are prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting
     framework and relevant supervisory requirements;
c. well-defined credit risk assessment and measurement processes that are independent from
     (while taking appropriate account of) the lending function, which contain:
         i.    an effective credit risk rating system that is consistently applied, accurately grades
               differentiating by credit risk characteristics, identifies changes in credit risk on a
               timely basis, and prompts appropriate action;
22
   The Financial Stability Board published Principles for sound residential mortgage underwriting practices in April 2012,
which aim to provide a framework for jurisdictions to set minimum acceptable underwriting standards for real estate
lending exposures; available at www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_120418.pdf. The EBA has published
Guidelines on creditworthiness assessment (EBA/GL/2015/11) which are aligned with the FSB Principles and cover some
of them.
                                                                                                                       19

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
         ii.    an effective process to ensure that all relevant and reasonable and supportable
                information, including forward-looking information, is appropriately considered in
                assessing credit risk and measuring ECL. This includes maintaining appropriate
                reports, details of reviews performed, and identification and descriptions of the roles
                and responsibilities of staff involved;
        iii.    an assessment policy that ensures ECL measurement occurs at the individual lending
                exposure level and also, when necessary to appropriately measure ECL in accordance
                with the applicable accounting framework, at the collective portfolio level by
                grouping exposures based on identified shared credit risk characteristics;
        iv.     an effective model validation process to ensure that the credit risk assessment and
                measurement models are able to generate accurate, consistent and unbiased
                predictive estimates, on an ongoing basis. This includes establishing policies and
                procedures which set out the accountability and reporting structure of the model
                validation process, internal rules for assessing and approving changes to the models,
                and reporting of the outcome of the model validation;
         v.     clear formal communication and coordination among a credit institution’s credit risk
                staff, financial reporting staff, senior management, the management body and others
                who are involved in the credit risk assessment and ECL measurement process. This
                should be evidenced by written policies and procedures, management reports and
                minutes of committees involved such as management body or senior management
                committees; and
d. an internal audit 23 function that:
          i.    independently evaluates the effectiveness of the credit institution’s credit risk
                assessment and measurement systems and processes, including the credit risk rating
                system; and
         ii.    makes recommendations on addressing any weaknesses identified during this
                evaluation.
    4.2.2            Principle 2 — Sound ECL methodologies
    Credit institutions should adopt, document and adhere to policies which include sound
    methodologies, procedures and controls for assessing and measuring credit risk on all lending
    exposures. The measurement of allowances should build upon those methodologies and result
    in the appropriate and timely recognition of ECL in accordance with the applicable accounting
    framework.
23
   Article 74 of Directive 2013/36/EU and EBA Guidelines on Internal Governance (GL 44).
                                                                                                     20

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
28. The credit risk assessment and measurement process should provide the relevant information
     for senior management to make its experienced judgements about the credit risk of lending
     exposures, and the related estimation of ECL.
29. Credit institutions should, to the maximum extent possible, leverage and integrate common
     processes, systems, tools and data that are used within a credit institution to determine if,
     when, and on what terms, credit should be granted; monitor credit risk; and measure
     allowances for both accounting and capital adequacy purposes.
30. A credit institution’s allowance methodologies should clearly document the definitions of key
     terms related to the assessment of credit risk and ECL measurement (such as loss and
     migration rates, loss events and default). Where different terms, information or assumptions
     are used across functional areas (such as accounting, capital adequacy and credit risk
     management), the underlying rationale for these differences should be documented and
     approved by senior management. Information and assumptions used for ECL estimates should
     be reviewed and updated as required by the applicable accounting framework.
31. Credit institutions should have in place adequate processes and systems to appropriately
     identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and mitigate the level of credit risk. During the
     transition to the ECL accounting model, existing processes and systems should be evaluated
     and, if necessary, modified to collect and analyse relevant information affecting the
     assessment of credit risk and ECL measurement.
32. Credit institutions should adopt and adhere to written policies and procedures detailing the
     credit risk systems and controls used in their credit risk methodologies, and the separate roles
     and responsibilities of the credit institution’s management body and senior management.
33. Sound methodologies for assessing credit risk and measuring the level of allowances (subject
     to exposure type, for example retail or wholesale) should, in particular:
a. include a robust process that is designed to equip the credit institution with the ability to
     identify the level, nature and drivers of credit risk upon initial recognition of the lending
     exposure, to ensure that subsequent changes in credit risk can be identified and quantified;
b. include criteria to duly consider the impact of forward-looking information, including
     macroeconomic factors. Whether the evaluation of credit risk is conducted on a collective or
     individual basis, a credit institution should be able to demonstrate that this consideration has
     occurred so that the recognition of ECL is not delayed. Such criteria should result in the
     identification of factors that affect repayment, whether related to borrower incentives,
     willingness or ability to perform on the contractual obligations, or lending exposure terms and
     conditions. Economic factors considered (such as unemployment rates or occupancy rates)
     should be relevant to the assessment and, depending on the circumstances, this may be at
     the international, national, regional or local level;
                                                                                                   21

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
c. include, for collectively evaluated exposures, a description of the basis for creating groups of
     portfolios of exposures with shared credit risk characteristics;
d. identify and document the ECL assessment and measurement methods (such as a loss rate
     method, probability of default (PD)/loss-given-default (LGD) method, or another method) to
     be applied to each exposure or portfolio;
e. document the reasons why the selected method is appropriate, especially if different ECL
     measurement methods are applied to different portfolios and types of individual exposures.
     Credit institutions should be able to explain to the competent authorities the rationale for any
     changes in measurement approach (for example, a move from a loss rate method to a
     PD/LGD method) and the quantitative impacts of such changes;
f.   document:
         i.    the inputs, data and assumptions used in the allowance estimation process, such as
               historical loss rates, PD/LGD estimates and economic forecasts;
        ii.    how the life of an exposure or portfolio is determined (including how expected
               prepayments and defaults have been considered);
       iii.    the time period over which historical loss experience is evaluated;
       iv.     any adjustments necessary for the estimation of ECL in accordance with the
               applicable accounting framework. For example, if current and forecasted economic
               conditions are different from those that existed during the historical estimation
               period being used, adjustments that are directionally consistent with those
               differences should be made. In addition, a credit institution may have experienced
               little to no actual losses in the historical period analysed; however, current or
               forward-looking conditions can differ from conditions during the historical period,
               and the impact of these changes on ECL should be assessed and measured;
g. include a process for evaluating the appropriateness of significant inputs and assumptions in
     the ECL measurement method chosen. The basis for inputs and assumptions used in the
     process of the estimation of allowances should generally be consistent from period to period.
     Where the inputs and assumptions or the basis for these change, the rationale should be
     documented;
h. identify the situations that would generally lead to changes in ECL measurement methods,
     inputs or assumptions from period to period (for example, a credit institution may state that a
     loan that had been previously evaluated on a collective basis using a PD/LGD method may be
     removed and evaluated individually using the discounted cash flow method upon receipt of
     new, borrower-specific information such as the loss of employment);
                                                                                                   22

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
i.   consider the relevant internal and external factors that may affect ECL estimates, such as the
     underwriting standards applied to a lending exposure at origination and changes in industry,
     geographical, economic and political factors;
j.   address how ECL estimates are determined (for example historical loss rates or migration
     analysis as a starting point, adjusted for information on current and expected conditions). A
     credit institution should have an unbiased view of the uncertainty and risks in its lending
     activities when estimating ECL;
k. identify what factors are considered when establishing appropriate historical time periods
     over which to evaluate historical loss experience. A credit institution should maintain
     sufficient historical loss data to provide a meaningful analysis of its credit loss experience for
     use as a starting point when estimating the level of allowances on a collective or individual
     basis;
l.   determine the extent to which the value of collateral and other credit risk mitigants affects
     ECL;
m. outline the credit institution’s policies and procedures on write-offs and recoveries;
n. require that analyses, estimates, reviews and other tasks/processes that are inputs to or
     outputs from the credit risk assessment and measurement process are performed by
     competent and well-trained staff and validated by staff who are independent of the credit
     institution’s lending activities. These inputs to and outputs from these functions should be
     well documented, and the documentation should include clear explanations supporting the
     analyses, estimates and reviews;
o. document the methods used to validate models for ECL measurement (for example
     backtests);
p. ensure that ECL estimates appropriately incorporate forward-looking information, including
     macroeconomic factors, that has not already been factored into allowances measured on an
     individual exposure basis. This may require management to use its experienced credit
     judgement to consider broad trends in the entire lending portfolio, changes in the credit
     institution’s business model, macroeconomic factors, etc.; and
q. require a process to assess the overall appropriateness of allowances in accordance with the
     relevant accounting framework, including a regular review of ECL models.
34. A credit institution’s credit risk identification process should ensure that factors that impact
     changes in credit risk and estimates of ECL are properly identified on a regular basis. In
     addition, consideration of credit risk inherent in new products and activities should be a key
     part of the credit risk identification process, the assessment of credit risk and measurement
     of ECL.
                                                                                                     23

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
35. Senior management should consider relevant facts and circumstances, including forward-
     looking information, that are likely to cause ECL to differ from historical experience and that
     may affect credit risk and the full collectability of cash flows.
36. With respect to factors related to the character, capacity and capital of borrowers, the terms
     of lending exposures, and the values of assets pledged as collateral together with other credit
     risk mitigants that may affect the full collectability of cash flows, a credit institution should
     (depending on the type of exposure) consider:
a. its lending policies and procedures, including its underwriting standards and lending terms,
     that were in effect upon initial recognition of the borrower’s lending exposure, and whether
     the lending exposure was originated as an exception to this policy. A credit institution’s
     lending policy should include details of its underwriting standards, and guidelines and
     procedures that drive the credit institution’s lending approval process;
b. a borrower’s sources of recurring income available to meet the scheduled payments;
c. a borrower’s ability to generate a sufficient cash flow stream over the term of the financial
     instrument;
d. the borrower’s overall leverage level and expectations of changes to leverage;
e. the incentives or willingness of borrowers to meet their obligations;
f.   unencumbered assets 24 the borrower may pledge as collateral in the market or bilaterally in
     order to raise funds and expectations of changes to the value of those assets;
g. reasonably possible one-off events and recurring behaviour that may affect the borrower’s
     ability to meet contractual obligations; and
h. timely evaluations of collateral value and consideration of factors that may impact the future
     value of collateral (bearing in mind that collateral values directly affect estimates of LGD).
37. Where they have the potential to affect the credit institution’s ability to recover amounts
     due, credit institutions should consider factors relating to the credit institution’s business
     model and current and forecasted macroeconomic conditions, including but not limited to:
a. competition and legal and regulatory requirements;
b. trends in the institution’s overall volume of credit;
24
   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/79 of 18 December 2014 amending Implementing Regulation (EU)
No 680/2014 laying down implementing technical standards with regard to supervisory reporting of institutions
according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards asset
encumbrance, single data point model and validation rules.
                                                                                                          24

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
c. the overall credit risk profile of the credit institution’s lending exposures and expectations of
     changes thereto;
d. credit concentrations to borrowers or by product type, segment or geographical market;
e. expectations of collection, write-off and recovery practices;
f.   the quality of the credit institution’s credit risk review system and the degree of oversight by
     the credit institution’s senior management and management body; and
g. other factors that may impact ECL including, but not limited to, expectations of changes in
     unemployment rates, gross domestic product, benchmark interest rates, inflation, liquidity
     conditions, or technology.
38. Sound credit risk methodologies should consider different potential scenarios and should not
     rely purely on subjective, biased or overly optimistic considerations. Credit institutions should
     develop and document their processes to generate relevant scenarios to be used in the
     estimation of ECL. In particular:
a. credit institutions should demonstrate and document how ECL estimates would alter with
     changes in scenarios, including changes to relevant external conditions that may impact ECL
     estimates or components of the ECL calculation (such as PD and LGD parameters);
b. credit institutions should have a documented process for determining the time horizon of the
     scenarios and, if relevant, how ECL is estimated for exposures whose lives exceed the period
     covered by the economic forecast(s) used;
c. scenarios may be internally developed or outsourced. For internally developed scenarios,
     credit institutions should have a variety of experts, such as risk experts, economists, business
     managers and senior management, assisting in the selection of scenarios that are relevant to
     the credit institutions’ credit risk exposure profile. For outsourced scenarios, credit
     institutions should ensure that the external provider tailors the scenarios to reflect the credit
     institutions’ business and credit risk exposure profile, as credit institutions remain responsible
     for those scenarios;
d. backtesting should be performed to ensure that the most relevant economic factors that
     affect collectability and credit risk are being considered and incorporated into ECL estimates;
     and
e. where market indicators (such as credit default swaps (‘CDS’) spreads) are available, senior
     management may consider them to be a valid benchmark against which to check the
     consistency of its own judgements.
39. While a credit institution does not need to identify or model every possible scenario through
     scenario simulations, it should consider all reasonable and supportable information that is
     relevant to the product, borrower, business model or economic and regulatory environment
                                                                                                    25

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     when developing estimates of ECL. In developing such estimates for financial reporting
     purposes, credit institutions should consider the experience and lessons from similar
     exercises it has conducted for regulatory purposes (although stressed scenarios are not
     intended to be used directly for accounting purposes). Forward-looking information, including
     economic forecasts and related credit risk factors used for ECL estimates, should be
     consistent with inputs to other relevant estimates within the financial statements, budgets,
     strategic and capital plans, and other information used in managing and reporting within a
     credit institution.
40. Senior management should be able to demonstrate that it understands and appropriately
     considers inherent risks when pricing lending exposures. Credit institutions should take
     particular care of the following fact patterns, which are potentially indicative of inadequate
     estimates of ECL:
a. the granting of credit to borrowers based on fragile income streams (that could become non-
     recurrent upon a downturn) or with no documentation or limited verification of borrower
     income sources;
b. high debt service requirements relative to the borrower’s net available expected cash flows;
c. flexible repayment schedules, including payment vacations, interest-only payments and
     negative amortisation features;
d. for real estate and other asset based financing, lending of amounts equal to or exceeding the
     value of the financed property or otherwise failing to provide an adequate margin of
     collateral protection;
e. undue increases in modifications of lending exposures due to financial difficulties faced by the
     borrower 25 or renegotiations/modifications of lending exposures for other reasons (such as
     competitive pressures faced by credit institutions);
f.   circumvention of the classification and rating requirements, including rescheduling,
     refinancing or reclassification of lending exposures;
g. undue increases in the volume of credit, especially in relation to the increase in the volume of
     credit by other lenders in the same market; and
h. increasing volume and severity of past-due, low-quality and impaired credit.
41. Credit institutions’ accounting policies should address, and their allowance methodology
     should include, criteria for (a) renegotiations/modifications of lending exposures due to
25
   See also Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/227 of 9 January 2015 amending Implementing Regulation
(EU) No 680/2014 laying down implementing technical standards with regard to supervisory reporting of institutions
according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 41, 20.2.2015, p. 1)
which establishes specific definitions of forbearance and non-performing exposures.
                                                                                                               26

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     financial difficulties or for other reasons, considering also the specific definitions of
     forbearance established in Part 2 of Annex V of Commission Implementing Regulation
     (EU) 680/2014 and (b) the treatment of purchased or originated credit-impaired lending
     exposures as defined under the applicable accounting framework:
a. Credit institutions should take into account                  the  following    criteria  regarding
     renegotiations/modifications of lending exposures:
         i.    The allowance methodology should enable credit institutions to perform a robust
               assessment of credit risk and measurement of ECL such that the allowance level
               continues to reflect the collectability of the substance of the renegotiated/modified
               exposure, irrespective of whether or not the original asset is derecognised under the
               applicable accounting framework.
        ii.    Renegotiations/modifications should not automatically lead to the conclusion that
               there has been an immediate decrease in the credit risk of the exposure. Any
               decrease in the reported allowance level due to improved credit risk should be
               supported by strong evidence. Customers should demonstrate consistently
               satisfactory payment performance over a reasonable period of time before credit risk
               would be considered to have decreased, considering also the relevant requirements
               for exposures in the probation period as defined in Part 2 of Annex V of Commission
               Implementing Regulation (EU) 680/2014.
       iii.    Credit institutions should carefully consider whether the collection of loan principal is
               reasonably assured when repayment performance takes the form of interest
               payments alone, subsequent to a renegotiation or modification. In addition, further
               expected delays in the payment of those cash flows may evidence that credit risk has
               not improved, and thus the level of ECL should be reassessed carefully.
       iv.     The methodologies should also call upon the lending staff to promptly notify the
               institution’s accounting function when exposures are renegotiated or modified to
               ensure appropriate accounting for the change. For more complex renegotiations and
               modifications, regular communication between the lending staff and the accounting
               function should take place.
b. Credit institutions should take into account the following criteria regarding purchased or
     originated credit-impaired lending exposures:
         i.    The methodology should enable appropriate identification and accounting for
               purchased or originated credit-impaired lending.
        ii.    The cash flow estimates for these lending exposures should be reviewed each
               reporting period and updated as necessary. Such updates should be properly
               supported and documented, and approved by senior management.
                                                                                                    27

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
    4.2.3           Principle 3 — Credit risk rating process and grouping
    A credit institution should have a credit risk rating process in place to appropriately group
    lending exposures on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics.
Credit risk rating process
42. As part of its credit risk assessment process, credit institutions should have in place
     comprehensive procedures and information systems to monitor the quality of their lending
     exposures. These include an effective credit risk rating process that captures the varying level,
     nature and drivers of credit risk that may manifest themselves over time, in order to
     reasonably ensure that all lending exposures are properly monitored and that ECL allowances
     are appropriately measured.
43. The credit risk rating process should include an independent review function. Initial
     assignment of credit risk grades to exposures and their ongoing updating by front-line lending
     staff should be subject to the review of the independent review function.
44. Credit institutions should take into account a number of criteria when assigning the credit risk
     grade upon initial recognition of a lending exposure including, to the extent relevant, product
     type, terms and conditions, collateral type and amount, borrower characteristics and
     geography or a combination thereof.
45. When changing existing credit risk grades assigned, on either a portfolio or an individual basis,
     credit institutions should take into account other relevant factors such as, but not limited to,
     changes in industry outlook, business growth rates, consumer sentiment and changes in
     economic forecasts (such as interest rates, unemployment rates and commodity prices) as
     well as weaknesses in underwriting identified after initial recognition.
46. The credit risk rating system should capture all lending exposures when assessing the impact
     of changes in credit risk, and not only those that may have experienced significant increases
     in credit risk, have incurred losses or are otherwise credit impaired. This is to allow for an
     appropriate differentiation of credit risk and grouping of lending exposures within the credit
     risk rating system, and to reflect the risk of individual exposures as well as, when aggregated
     across all exposures, the level of credit risk in the portfolio as a whole. In this context, an
     effective credit risk rating system should allow credit institutions to identify both migration of
     credit risk and significant changes in credit risk.
47. Credit institutions should describe the elements of their credit risk rating system, clearly
     defining each credit risk grade and designating the staff responsible for the design,
     implementation, operation and performance of the system as well as those responsible for
     periodic testing and validation (i.e. the independent review function).
48. Credit risk grades should be reviewed whenever relevant new information is received or a
     credit institution’s expectation of credit risk has changed. Credit risk grades assigned should
                                                                                                    28

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     receive a periodic formal review (for example at least annually, or more frequently if required
     in a jurisdiction) to reasonably ensure that those grades are accurate and up to date. Credit
     risk grades for individually assessed lending exposures that are higher risk or credit impaired
     should be reviewed more frequently than annually. ECL estimates should be updated on a
     timely basis to reflect changes in credit risk grades for either groups of exposures or individual
     exposures.
Grouping based on shared credit risk characteristics
49. Credit institutions should group exposures with shared credit risk characteristics in a way that
     is sufficiently granular to be able to reasonably assess changes in credit risk and thus the
     impact on the estimate of ECL for these groups.
50. A credit institution’s methodology for grouping exposures to assess credit risk (such as by
     instrument type, product terms and conditions, industry/market segment, geographical
     location or vintages) should be documented and subject to appropriate review and internal
     approval by senior management.
51. Lending exposures should be grouped according to shared credit risk characteristics so that
     changes in the level of credit risk respond to the impact of changing conditions on a common
     range of credit risk drivers. This includes considering the effect on the group’s credit risk in
     response to changes in forward-looking information, including macroeconomic factors. The
     basis of grouping should be reviewed by senior management to ensure that exposures within
     the group remain homogeneous in terms of their response to credit risk drivers and that the
     relevant credit risk characteristics and their impact on the level of credit risk for the group
     have not changed over time.
52. Exposures should not be grouped in such a way that an increase in the credit risk of particular
     exposures is obscured by the performance of the group as a whole.
53. Credit institutions should have in place a robust process to ensure appropriate initial grouping
     of their lending exposures. Subsequently, the grouping of exposures should be re-evaluated
     and exposures should be re-segmented if relevant new information is received or a credit
     institution’s changed expectations of credit risk suggest that a permanent adjustment is
     warranted. If a credit institution is not able to re-segment exposures on a timely basis, a
     temporary adjustment should be used.
Use of temporary adjustments
54. Credit institutions should use temporary adjustments to an allowance only as an interim
     solution, in particular in transient circumstances or when there is insufficient time to
     appropriately incorporate relevant new information into the existing credit risk rating and
     modelling process, or to re-segment existing groups of lending exposures, or when lending
     exposures within a group of lending exposures react to factors or events differently than
     initially expected.
                                                                                                    29

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
55. Such adjustments should not be continuously used over the long term for a non-transient risk
     factor. If the reason for the adjustment is not expected to be temporary, such as the
     emergence of a new risk driver that has not previously been incorporated into the
     institution’s allowance methodology, the methodology should be updated in the near term to
     incorporate the factor that is expected to have an ongoing impact on the measurement of
     ECL.
56. The use of temporary adjustments requires the application of significant judgement and
     creates the potential for bias. In order to avoid the creation of potential for bias, temporary
     adjustments should be directionally consistent with forward-looking forecasts, supported by
     appropriate documentation, and subject to appropriate governance processes.
    4.2.4           Principle 4 — Adequacy of the allowance
    A credit institution’s aggregate amount of allowances, regardless of whether allowances are
    determined on a collective or an individual basis, should be adequate and consistent with the
    objectives of the applicable accounting framework.
57. Credit institutions should implement sound credit risk methodologies with the objective that
     the overall balance of the allowance for ECL is developed in accordance with the applicable
     accounting framework and adequately reflects ECL within that framework.
58. When assessing the adequacy of the allowances credit institutions should take into account
     relevant factors and expectations at the reporting date that may affect the collectability of
     remaining cash flows over the life of a group of lending exposures or a single lending
     exposure. Credit institutions should consider information which goes beyond historical and
     current data, and take into account reasonable and supportable forward-looking information,
     including macroeconomic factors, that are relevant to the exposure(s) being evaluated (for
     example retail or wholesale) in accordance with the applicable accounting framework.
59. Depending on the ability to incorporate forward-looking information into the ECL estimate,
     credit institutions may use individual or collective assessment approaches; regardless of the
     assessment approach used, they should be consistent with the relevant accounting
     requirements and not result in materially different allowance measurements. Together,
     individual and collective assessments form the basis for the allowance for ECL.
60. The ECL assessment approach used should be the most appropriate in the particular
     circumstances, and typically should be aligned with how the credit institution manages the
     lending exposure. For example, collective assessment is often used for large groups of
     homogeneous lending exposures with shared credit risk characteristics, such as retail
     portfolios. Individual assessments are often conducted for significant exposures, or where
     credit concerns have been identified at the individual loan level, such as watch list and past
     due loans.
                                                                                                  30

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
61. Regardless of the assessment approach it uses (individual or collective), a credit institution
     should ensure this does not result in delayed recognition of ECL.
62. When credit institutions use individual assessments, the ECL estimate should always
     incorporate the expected impact of all reasonable and supportable forward-looking
     information, including macroeconomic factors, that affect collectability and credit risk. When
     applying an individual assessment approach, in the same manner as in the case of collective
     assessment, the credit institution’s documentation should clearly demonstrate how forward-
     looking information, including macroeconomic factors, has been reflected in the individual
     assessment.
63. In cases when a credit institution’s individual assessments of exposures do not adequately
     consider forward-looking information, and in order to allow identification of relationships
     between forward-looking information and ECL estimates that may not be apparent at the
     individual level, an institution should group lending exposures with shared credit risk
     characteristics to estimate the impact of forward-looking information, including
     macroeconomic factors. Conversely, when credit institutions determine that all reasonable
     and supportable forward-looking information has been incorporated in the individual
     assessment of ECL, an additional forward-looking assessment should not be conducted on a
     collective basis if that could result in double counting.
    4.2.5           Principle 5 — ECL model validation
    A credit institution should have policies and procedures in place to appropriately validate
    models used to measure ECL.
64. Credit institutions may use in the ECL assessment and measurement process models and
     assumption-based estimates for risk identification and measurement, at both the individual
     lending exposure and overall portfolio levels, including credit grading, credit risk
     identification, measurement of ECL allowances for accounting purposes, stress testing and
     capital allocation. Models used in the ECL assessment and measurement process should
     consider the impact of changes to borrower and credit risk-related variables such as changes
     in PDs, LGDs, exposure amounts, collateral values, migration of default probabilities and
     internal borrower credit risk grades based on historical, current, and reasonable and
     supportable forward-looking information, including macroeconomic factors.
65. Credit institutions should have robust policies and procedures in place to appropriately
     validate the accuracy and consistency of the models used to assess the credit risk and
     measure ECL, including their model-based credit risk rating systems and processes and the
     estimation of all relevant risk components, at the outset of model usage and on an ongoing
     basis. Such policies and procedures should appropriately include the role of professional
     judgement.
                                                                                                 31

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
66. Model validation should be conducted when the ECL models are initially developed and when
     significant changes are made to the models, and should ensure that the models are suitable
     for their proposed usage on an ongoing basis.
67. A sound model validation framework should include, but not be limited to, the following
     elements:
a. Clear roles and responsibilities for model validation with adequate independence and
     competence. Model validation should be performed independently of the model
     development process and by staff with the necessary experience and expertise. The findings
     and outcomes of model validation should be reported in a prompt and timely manner to the
     appropriate level of authority. Where a credit institution has outsourced its validation
     function to an external party, the credit institution remains responsible for the effectiveness
     of all model validation work and should ensure that the work done by the external party
     meets the elements of a sound model validation framework on an ongoing basis.
b. An appropriate model validation scope and methodology should include a systematic process
     of evaluating the model’s robustness, consistency and accuracy as well as its continued
     relevance to the underlying individual lending exposure or portfolio. An effective model
     validation process should also enable potential limitations of a model to be identified and
     addressed on a timely basis. The scope for validation should include a review of model inputs,
     model design and model outputs/performance.
    •    Model inputs: Credit institutions should have internally established quality and reliability
         standards on data (historical, current and forward-looking information) used as model
         inputs. Data used to estimate ECL allowances should be relevant to the credit institutions’
         portfolios and, as far as possible, accurate, reliable and complete (i.e. without exclusions
         that could bias ECL estimates). Validation should ensure that the data used meet these
         standards.
    •    Model design: For model design, validation should assess that the underlying theory of the
         model is conceptually sound, recognised and generally accepted for its intended purpose.
         From a forward-looking perspective, validation should also assess the extent to which the
         model, at the overall model and individual risk factor level, can take into consideration
         changes in the economic or credit environment, as well as changes to portfolio business
         profile or strategy, without significantly reducing model robustness.
    •    Model output/performance: Credit institutions should have internally established
         standards for acceptable model performance. Where performance thresholds are
         significantly breached, remedial actions up to the extent of model re-calibration or re-
         development should be taken.
c. Comprehensive documentation of the model validation framework and process. This should
     include documenting the validation procedures performed, any changes in validation
     methodology and tools, the range of data used, validation results and any remedial actions
                                                                                                   32

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     taken where necessary. Credit institutions should ensure that the documentation is regularly
     reviewed and updated.
d. A review of the model validation process by independent parties (e.g. internal or external
     parties) to evaluate the overall effectiveness of the model validation process and the
     independence of the model validation process from the development process. The findings of
     the review should be reported in a prompt and timely manner to the appropriate level of
     authority (e.g. senior management, audit committee).
    4.2.6           Principle 6 — Experienced credit judgement
    A credit institution’s use of experienced credit judgement, especially in the consideration of
    reasonable and supportable forward-looking information, including macroeconomic factors, is
    essential to the assessment of credit risk and measurement of ECL.
68. Credit institutions should have the necessary tools to ensure a robust estimate and timely
     recognition of ECL. Given that information on historical loss experience or the impact of
     current conditions may not fully reflect the credit risk in lending exposures, credit institutions
     should use their experienced credit judgement to thoroughly incorporate the expected
     impact of all reasonable and supportable forward-looking information, including
     macroeconomic factors, on its estimate of ECL. A credit institution’s use of its experienced
     credit judgement should be documented in the credit institution’s credit risk methodology
     and subject to appropriate oversight.
69. Historical information provides a useful basis for the identification of trends and correlations
     needed to identify the credit risk drivers for lending exposures. However, ECL estimates must
     not ignore the impact of (forward-looking) events and conditions on those drivers. The
     estimate should reflect the expected future cash shortfalls resulting from such impact.
70. Consideration of forward-looking information should not be avoided on the basis that a credit
     institution considers the cost of incorporating such forward-looking information to be very
     high or unnecessary or because there is uncertainty in formulating forward-looking scenarios,
     unless the additional cost and operational burden to be introduced do not contribute to a
     high-quality implementation of an ECL accounting framework.
71. Credit institutions should be able to demonstrate that the forward-looking information
     factored into the ECL estimation process has a link to the credit risk drivers for particular
     exposures or portfolios. Given that it may not be possible to demonstrate a strong link in
     formal statistical terms between certain types of information, or even the information set as a
     whole, and the credit risk drivers, credit institutions should use their experienced credit
     judgement in establishing an appropriate level for the individual or collective allowance.
     When a forward-looking factor that has been identified as relevant is not incorporated into
     the individual or collective assessment, temporary adjustments may be necessary.
                                                                                                     33

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
72. Macroeconomic forecasts and other relevant information should be applied consistently
     across portfolios where the credit risk drivers of the portfolios are affected by these
     forecasts/assumptions in the same way. Furthermore, when developing ECL estimates, credit
     institutions should apply their experienced credit judgement to consider their point in the
     credit cycle, which may differ across the jurisdictions in which they have lending exposures.
73. Credit institutions should exercise care when determining the level of ECL allowances to be
     recognised for accounting purposes, to ensure that the resulting estimates are appropriate
     (i.e. consistent with neutrality and neither understated nor overstated).
74. Additionally, credit institutions should avail themselves of a wide range of information
     derived in the credit risk management process, including that of a forward-looking nature for
     risk management and capital adequacy purposes, in developing their estimate of ECL.
    4.2.7           Principle 7 — Common processes, systems, tools and data
    Credit institutions should have a sound credit risk assessment and measurement process that
    provides them with a strong basis for common processes, systems, tools and data to assess
    credit risk and to account for expected credit losses.
75. To the maximum extent possible, credit institutions should use common processes, systems,
     tools and data to assess credit risk, measure ECL for accounting purposes and determine
     expected losses for capital adequacy purposes in order to strengthen the reliability and
     consistency of the resulting ECL estimates, increase transparency and, through market
     discipline, provide incentives to follow sound credit risk practices.
76. Credit risk practices should be reviewed periodically to ensure that relevant data available
     throughout a credit institution’s organisation are captured and that systems are updated as
     the credit institution’s underwriting or business practices change or evolve over time. A
     feedback loop should be established to ensure that information on estimates of ECL, changes
     in credit risk and actual losses experienced on lending exposures is shared among credit risk
     experts, accounting and regulatory reporting staff, and in particular with the loan
     underwriting staff.
77. The common processes, systems, tools and data mentioned above could include credit risk
     rating systems, estimated PDs (subject to appropriate adjustments), past-due status, loan-to-
     value ratios, historical loss rates, product type, amortisation schedule, down payment
     requirements, market segment, geographical location, vintage (i.e. date of origination) and
     collateral type.
    4.2.8           Principle 8 — Disclosure
    A credit institution’s public disclosures should promote transparency and comparability by
    providing timely, relevant and decision-useful information.
                                                                                                   34

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
78. The objective of public disclosures is to provide decision-useful information on a credit
     institution’s financial position and performance, and changes therein, to a wide range of users
     in a clear and understandable manner. Credit institutions should aim to provide information
     that is relevant and comparable so that users can make timely, informed decisions and are
     able to evaluate the stewardship of management body and senior management.
79. Financial and credit risk management disclosures should be made in accordance with the
     applicable accounting and supervisory frameworks 26. Credit institutions should provide the
     disclosures needed to fairly depict a credit institutions’s exposure to credit risk, including its
     ECL estimates, and to provide relevant information on a credit institution’s underwriting
     practices.
80. Consistently with the applicable accounting standards and regulations, credit institutions’
     senior management should apply judgement to determine the appropriate level of
     aggregation and disaggregation of data disclosed, such that disclosures continue to meet
     accounting requirements, and provide insights into a credit institution’s exposure to credit
     risk and ECLs for users to perform individual institution analysis and relevant peer group
     comparisons.
81. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures when taken as a whole should communicate to users
     the main assumptions/inputs used to develop ECL estimates. Disclosures should highlight
     policies and definitions that are integral to the estimation of ECL (such as a credit institution’s
     basis for grouping lending exposures into portfolios with similar credit risk characteristics and
     its definition of default 27), factors that cause changes in ECL estimates, and the manner in
     which senior management’s experienced credit judgement has been incorporated. Disclosure
     of significant policies should indicate how those policies have been implemented in the
     specific context of the credit institution.
82. Credit institutions should provide qualitative disclosures on how forward-looking information,
     including macroeconomic factors, has been incorporated into the ECL estimation process, in
     accordance with the applicable accounting framework, in particular when the assessment is
     carried out on an individual basis.
83. Disclosures regarding the basis for grouping lending exposures should include information on
     how senior management satisfies itself that lending exposures are appropriately grouped,
     such that these groups continue to share credit risk characteristics.
84. To improve the quality and meaningfulness of information disclosed for ECL estimates, credit
     institutions should provide an explanation of significant changes to the estimation of ECL from
26
  In accordance with Part 8 of Regulation (EU) 575/2013, EBA GL/2016/11 on disclosures requirements under Part 8 of
Regulation (EU) 573/2013) and EBA GL/2014/14 on materiality, proprietary and confidentiality and on disclosure
frequency under Articles 432(1), 432(2) and 433 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
27
  See paragraphs 89 and 90 in the next section for further guidance on definition of default.
                                                                                                                35

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     period to period. This information should include both relevant qualitative and quantitative
     disclosures in a manner that enhances the understanding of how ECL estimates have changed.
85. Credit institutions’ management body should regularly review its disclosure policies to ensure
     that the information disclosed continues to be relevant to the credit institution’s risk profile,
     product concentrations, industry norms and current market conditions. In doing so, credit
     institutions should provide disclosures that facilitate comparisons with its peers, enabling
     users to monitor changes in the credit institution’s ECL estimates from period to period and
     perform meaningful analyses across national and international peer groups.
4.3 Guidelines specific to credit institutions applying IFRS 9
This section provides guidelines on aspects of the ECL requirements in the impairment sections of
IFRS 9 — (i) the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month ECL; (ii) the assessment of
significant increases in credit risk; and (iii) the use of practical expedients — that are not common
to other ECL accounting frameworks and should be read in conjunction with the other sections of
these guidelines.
    4.3.1           Loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month ECL
86. In accordance with paragraph 5.5.5 of IFRS 9, ’if, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a
     financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, an entity shall
     measure the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month
     expected credit losses’. Credit institutions should measure ECL for all lending exposures and a
     nil allowance should be rare because ECL estimates are a probability-weighted amount that
     should always reflect the possibility that a credit loss will occur (see paragraphs 5.5.17 and
     5.5.18 of IFRS 9). A nil allowance could however occur, for example, for fully collateralised
     loans (although credit institutions should be cautious when developing estimates of collateral
     value, as valuation of collateral at origination may change over the life of the loan).
87. Credit institutions should adopt an active approach to assessing and measuring 12-month ECL
     that enables changes in credit risk to be identified in a timely manner and hence the timely
     recognition of those changes in ECL. In accordance with Principle 6, estimates of the amount
     and timing of 12-month ECL should reflect senior management’s experienced credit
     judgement, and represent an unbiased probability-weighted estimate of ECL by considering a
     range of possible outcomes
88. IFRS 9 defines an amount equal to 12-month ECL as ‘the portion of lifetime expected credit
     losses that represent the expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial
     instrument that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date’ 28. For these
     purposes, credit institutions must note that an amount equal to the 12-month ECL is not only
     the losses expected in the next 12 months; rather, in accordance with IFRS 9,
28
   See IFRS 9, Appendix A, Defined terms.
                                                                                                   36

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     paragraph B5.5.43, it is the expected cash shortfalls over the life of the lending exposure or
     group of lending exposures, due to loss events that could occur in the next 12 months. Credit
     institutions must also note that, in accordance with IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.9, to assess whether
     a financial instrument should move to a lifetime ECL measure, the change in the risk of a
     default occurring over the expected life of the financial instrument must be considered. In
     some circumstances, IFRS 9 allows changes in the risk of a default occurring over the next 12
     months to be used to make this assessment; however, this may not always be appropriate,
     and particular attention should be given to the examples set out in IFRS 9, paragraph B5.5.14.
89. IFRS 9, paragraph B5.5.37, does not define default, but requires credit institutions to define
     default in a manner consistent with that used for internal credit risk management. IFRS 9,
     paragraph B5.5.37, also includes a rebuttable presumption that default does not occur later
     than 90 days past due. When adopting a definition of default for accounting purposes, credit
     institutions should be guided by the definition used for regulatory purposes provided in
     Article 178 of Regulation (EU) 575/2013 29, which includes both:
a. a qualitative criterion by which ‘the institution considers that the obligor is unlikely to pay its
     credit obligations to the institution, the parent undertaking or any of its subsidiaries in full,
     without recourse by the institution to actions such as realising security’ (‘unlikeliness to pay’
     events); and
b. an objective indicator where ‘the obligor is past due more than 90 days on any material credit
     obligation to the institution, the parent undertaking or any of its subsidiaries’, equivalent to
     the rebuttable presumption in IFRS 9, paragraph B5.5.37.
90. In accordance with Article 178(1) of Regulation (EU) 575/2013, a default event shall be
     considered to have occurred with regard to a particular obligor when either of the criteria in
     paragraphs 4(a) and (b) is met, or both are met. In this context, credit institutions should
     identify default, in accordance with the ’unlikeliness to pay’ criterion of the debtor, before the
     exposure becomes delinquent with the 90-days-past-due criterion. In line with the approach
     followed for regulatory purposes, the list of elements provided in Article 178(3) of Regulation
     (EU) 575/2013 as indications of unlikeliness to pay should be implemented in a way that
     ensures a timely detection of ‘unlikeliness to pay’ events that precipitate eventual cash
     shortfalls. As regards the criterion in paragraph 4(b), although for regulatory purposes in the
     case of retail and public sector entity obligations, for the 90-day figure competent authorities
     may substitute a figure of up to 180 days for different products, as it considers appropriate to
     local conditions (see Article 178(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) 575/2013), this possibility should not
     be read as an exemption from the application of the 90-day rebuttable presumption in IFRS 9,
     paragraph B5.5.37, for those exposures.
29
   The EBA has published draft Guidelines on the application of the definition of default in accordance with Article 178
of Regulation 575/2013.
                                                                                                                      37

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
91. In formulating the estimate of the amount equal to 12-month ECL, credit institutions should
     consider reasonable and supportable information, as referred to in the Definitions and in
     Principle 6 of these guidelines, that affect credit risk, especially forward-looking information,
     including macroeconomic factors. Credit institutions should exercise experienced credit
     judgement to consider both qualitative and quantitative information that may affect the
     credit institution’s assessment of credit risk. IFRS 9 provides that an entity does not need to
     undertake an exhaustive search for information when measuring an amount equal to 12-
     month ECL. However, credit institutions should actively incorporate information that may
     affect the estimate of ECL, and credit institutions should not exclude or ignore relevant
     information that is reasonably available.
92. Where a credit institution originates high-credit-risk exposures (which should not be
     understood, in the context of this paragraph, as meaning the opposite of ‘low credit risk’
     exposures as described by IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.10) and their allowances are initially
     measured at 12-month ECL, the credit institution should monitor these exposures closely for
     significant increases in credit risk to ensure a timely movement of the exposure to lifetime
     ECL measurement, in order to take into account that high risk exposures are likely to exhibit
     greater volatility and to experience a more rapid increase in credit risk.
93. Even if an increase in credit risk is not judged to be significant, a credit institution should
     adjust its estimate of 12-month ECL to appropriately reflect changes in credit risk that have
     taken place. Such adjustments should be made well before exposures move, either
     individually or collectively, to lifetime ECL measurement and taking into account any
     migration of credit risk which has taken place.
94. Where a collective assessment is performed, exposures within that group should adhere to
     the requirements set out in Principle 3 of these guidelines. In particular, where information
     becomes available to the credit institution indicating that further or different segmentation
     within a group of lending exposures is required, the group should be split into subgroups and
     the measurement of the amount equal to 12-month ECL should be updated separately for
     each subgroup or, in the case of transient circumstances, a temporary adjustment should be
     applied (see Principle 3 of these guidelines and its detailed requirements on the use of
     temporary adjustments). Where information becomes available which indicates that a
     particular subgroup has suffered a significant increase in credit risk, then lifetime ECL should
     be recognised in respect of that subgroup.
95. Lending exposures should not be grouped in such a way as to obscure the identification of
     significant increases in credit risk on a timely basis (see also Principles 3 and 4 of these
     guidelines for additional requirements regarding grouping and collective assessments of ECL).
    4.3.2           Assessment of significant increases in credit risk
96. IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.4, states that ‘the objective of the impairment requirements is to
     recognise lifetime expected credit losses for all financial instruments for which there have
     been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition — whether assessed on an
                                                                                                    38

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
      individual or collective basis — considering all reasonable and supportable information,
      including that which is forward-looking.’
97. The rationale for this approach is that the creditworthiness of the counterparty, and thus the
      ECL anticipated upon initial recognition, is taken into account in the pricing of credit at that
      time. It follows, then, that a post-origination increase in credit risk may not be fully
      compensated by the interest rate charged, and, as a consequence, credit institutions should
      carefully consider whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk 30. If so, the
      lending exposure should be subject to lifetime ECL measurement.
98. In order to consider whether an exposure has suffered a significant increase in credit risk and
      the measurement of required 12-month ECL and lifetime ECL, credit institutions should have
      in place sound governance, systems and controls, in accordance with the principles specified
      in these guidelines. Unless already established, credit institutions should implement systems
      that are capable of handling and systematically assessing the large amounts of information
      that will be required to judge whether or not particular lending exposures or groups of
      lending exposures exhibit a significant increase in credit risk, and to measure lifetime ECL
      where that is the case. Parent undertakings and subsidiaries subject to Directive 2013/36/EU
      should ensure that the approach is consistent across the group. This should include, in
      particular, putting in place processes to ensure that forecasts of economic conditions in
      different jurisdictions and economic sectors are reviewed and approved by a credit
      institution’s senior management, and that the process, controls and economic assumptions
      around developing forecasts and linking these to expectations of credit loss are consistent
      across the group. The need for consistency should not be interpreted as a requirement that
      the practice be identical across a group. On the contrary, within a consistent framework there
      may be differences across jurisdictions and products, depending for instance on the
      availability of data. These differences should be well documented and justified.
99. Credit institutions’ processes in place should enable them to determine on a timely and
      holistic basis whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk subsequent to the
      initial recognition of a lending exposure so that an individual exposure, or a group of
      exposures with similar credit risk characteristics, is transferred to lifetime ECL measurement
      as soon as credit risk has increased significantly, in accordance with the IFRS 9 impairment
      accounting requirements.
100.       As noted in paragraph B5.5.17 of IFRS 9 on assessing significant increases in credit risk
      since initial recognition, the range of information that will need to be considered in making
      this determination is wide. In broad terms, it will include information on macroeconomic
      conditions, and the economic sector and geographical region relevant to a particular
      borrower or a group of borrowers with shared credit risk characteristics, in addition to
      borrower-specific strategic, operational and other characteristics. A critical feature is the
30
   IFRS 9 requires entities to consider a wide range of factors in assessing for significant increases in credit risk, and
pricing may be one of those factors.
                                                                                                                        39

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     required consideration of all reasonable and supportable forward-looking information that is
     available without undue cost and effort (see also paragraph 131 of these guidelines on the
     information set to be used), in addition to information about current conditions and historical
     data.
101.      In order to recognise allowances on a timely basis in line with the IFRS 9 requirements,
     credit institutions should:
a. assemble data and forward projections for the key drivers of credit risk in their lending
     exposures and portfolios; and
b. be able to quantify the credit risk in each of their lending exposures or portfolios based on
     these data and projections.
102.      IFRS 9, paragraph B5.5.2, states that lifetime expected credit losses are generally
     expected to be recognised before a financial instrument becomes past due and that ‘typically,
     credit risk increases significantly before a financial instrument becomes past due or other
     lagging borrower-specific factors (for example a modification or restructuring) are observed’.
     Therefore, credit institutions’ analyses should take into account the fact that the
     determinants of credit losses very often begin to deteriorate a considerable time (months or,
     in some cases, years) before any objective evidence of delinquency appears in the lending
     exposures affected. Credit institutions should be mindful that delinquency data are generally
     backward-looking, and will seldom on their own be appropriate in the implementation of an
     ECL approach. For example, within retail portfolios adverse developments in macroeconomic
     factors and borrower attributes will generally lead to an increase in the level of credit risk
     long before this manifests itself in lagging information such as delinquency.
103.      Thus, in order to meet the objective of IFRS 9 in a robust manner, credit institutions
     should also consider the linkages between macroeconomic factors and borrower attributes to
     the level of credit risk in a portfolio based on reasonable and supportable information. To that
     end, credit institutions should start with a detailed analysis of historical patterns and current
     trends, which would allow for identification of the most relevant credit risk drivers.
     Experienced credit judgement should facilitate the incorporation of current and forecasted
     conditions likely to affect those risk drivers, the expected cash shortfalls and therefore loss
     expectations.
104.      Credit institutions should perform analyses of this kind not only in the context of
     portfolios of individually small credits, such as credit card exposures, but also for large,
     individually managed lending exposures. For example, for a large commercial property loan,
     credit institutions should take account of the considerable sensitivity of the commercial
     property market in many jurisdictions to the general macroeconomic environment, and
     consider using information such as levels of interest rates or vacancy rates to determine
     whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
                                                                                                    40

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
105.      Credit institutions should have a clear policy including well-developed criteria on what
     constitutes a ‘significant’ increase in credit risk for different types of lending exposures. Such
     criteria and the reasons why these approaches and definitions are considered appropriate
     should be disclosed in accordance with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures,
     paragraph 35F. IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.9, requires that, when making the assessment of
     significant increases in credit risk, ‘an entity shall use the change in the risk of default
     occurring over the expected life of the financial instrument instead of the change in the
     amount of expected credit losses’. For these purposes, institutions should make this
     assessment in terms of the risk of a default occurring and not expected credit loss (i.e. before
     consideration of the effects of credit risk mitigants such as collateral or guarantees).
106.      In developing their approach to determining a significant increase in credit risk, credit
     institutions should consider each of the 16 classes of indicators in IFRS 9 (insofar as they are
     relevant to the financial instrument being assessed) as set out in paragraphs B5.5.17(a)-(p)
     and, in addition, credit institutions should consider whether there is further information that
     should be taken into account. Such indicators (in both IFRS 9 and these guidelines) should not
     be viewed as a ‘checklist’. Some may be more relevant than others to assessing whether a
     particular type of lending exposure exhibits a significant increase in credit risk. At the same
     time, credit institutions should take particular care to avoid the risk of a significant increase in
     credit risk not being acknowledged promptly when it is, in fact, present. In particular, credit
     institutions should not restrict significant increases in credit risk to situations when a financial
     instrument is anticipated to become credit impaired (i.e. the third stage of IFRS 9 impairment
     requirements). Rather, debtors may exhibit a significant increase in credit risk without
     evidence that the related lending exposures are likely to become impaired. The fact that
     credit risk has increased significantly does not necessarily mean that default is probable —
     merely that it is more likely than at initial recognition. This point is underlined by the
     symmetry of the IFRS 9 model: it is possible for lending exposures to move to lifetime ECL but
     subsequently be moved back to 12-month ECL if the threshold of a significant increase in
     credit risk is no longer met.
107.      Credit institutions should consider in particular the following non-exhaustive list of
     indicators in assessing a significant increase in credit risk:
a. a decision by the credit institution’s senior management such that, if an existing lending
     exposure were newly originated at the reporting date, the element of the price of the lending
     exposure that reflects the credit risk of the exposure would be significantly higher than it was
     when the loan was actually originated, because of an increase in the credit risk of the specific
     borrower or class of borrowers since inception;
b. a decision by the credit institution’s senior management to strengthen collateral and/or
     covenant requirements for new lending exposures that are similar to lending exposures
     already originated, because of changes in the credit risk of those exposures since initial
     recognition;
                                                                                                      41

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
c. a downgrade of a borrower by a recognised credit rating agency, or within a credit
     institution’s internal credit rating system;
d. for performing lending exposures subject to individual monitoring and review, an internal
     credit assessment summary/credit-quality indicator that is weaker than upon initial
     recognition;
e. deterioration of relevant determinants of credit risk (e.g. future cash flows) for an individual
     obligor (or pool of obligors); and
f.   expectation of modification due to financial difficulties, including those qualifying as
     forbearance in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2015/227.
    While implementation of IFRS 9 should reflect credit risk management practices where
    possible, in some cases that would not be appropriate. If, for example, a credit institution
    manages most lending exposures in the same way regardless of credit risk — with the
    exception only of particularly strong or weak credits — the manner in which a lending
    exposure is managed is unlikely to be a sound indicator of whether there has been a significant
    increase in credit risk.
108.      When assessing whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk for a lending
     exposure, credit institutions should also take into account the following factors which are
     related to the environment in which a credit institution or the borrower operates:
a. deterioration of the macroeconomic outlook relevant to a particular borrower or to a group
     of borrowers. Macroeconomic assessments should be sufficiently rich to include factors
     relevant to sovereign, corporate, household and other types of borrower. Furthermore, they
     should address any relevant regional differences in economic performance within a
     jurisdiction 31; and
b. deterioration of prospects for the sector or industries within which a borrower operates.
109.      Accurate identification of drivers of credit risk, and reliable demonstration of the linkages
     between those drivers and the level of credit risk, should be considered as critical, as a
     seemingly small change in a qualitative characteristic of a loan can potentially be a leading
     indicator of a large increase in the risk of a default occurring. Furthermore, in accordance with
     IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.9, the significance of a change in credit risk since initial recognition
     depends on the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition. In this regard, where a credit
     institution uses changes in PD as a means of identifying changes in the risk of a default
     occurring, it should take into consideration the significance of a given change in PD expressed
     in a ratio (or the rate of fluctuation) proportionate to the PD at initial recognition (i.e. a
     change in the PD divided by the PD at initial recognition), considering also paragraph B5.5.11
31
   See Principle 6 of these guidelines on the consideration of forward-looking information, including macroeconomic
factors.
                                                                                                                42

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     of IFRS 9. However, the width of the change in PD itself (i.e. PD at measurement date minus
     PD at initial recognition) should also be taken into consideration.
110.      Credit institutions should look beyond how many ‘grades’ a rating downgrade entails
     because the change in PD for a one-grade movement may not be linear (for example, the
     default probability over five years of an exposure rated BB is around three times that of one
     rated BBB, based on current data and analyses applicable to certain jurisdictions).
     Furthermore, because the significance of a one-grade movement would depend on the
     granularity of a bank’s rating system — and hence the ‘width’ of each grade — an appropriate
     initial segmentation should be defined to ensure that a significant increase in credit risk for an
     individual lending exposure or a group of lending exposures is not obscured within a segment.
     In this regard, credit institutions should ensure that credit risk rating systems include a
     sufficient number of grades to appropriately distinguish credit risk. Credit institutions should
     also be mindful of the fact that a significant increase in credit risk could occur prior to a
     movement in a credit grade.
111.      Credit institutions should take into account that there are some circumstances in which
     an adverse movement in the factors listed in paragraphs 107 and 108 above might not be
     indicative of a significant increase in credit risk. For example, it may be the case that the
     default probability of a lending exposure rated AA is low, and not much greater than one
     rated AAA. However, very few lending exposures are of such apparently low credit risk — and,
     as noted in paragraph 110, the sensitivity of default probability to rating grades may increase
     strongly as rating quality declines.
112.      Credit institutions should also be aware that there could be circumstances in which some
     factors move in an adverse direction but may be counterbalanced by improvement in others
     (see IFRS 9 Implementation Guidance, Example 2). Nonetheless, in view of the importance of
     detecting whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk, credit institutions
     should put in place governance and control processes capable of reliably validating any
     judgement that factors which may have an adverse impact on credit risk are counterbalanced
     by factors which may have a favourable impact.
113.      Credit institutions should give thorough consideration and full weight to discretionary
     decisions by a credit institution’s management body or senior management which point to a
     change in credit risk. For example, if because of concerns about credit risk a decision is made
     to intensify the monitoring of a borrower or class of borrowers, it is unlikely that such action
     would have been taken by the decision-maker had the increase in credit risk not been
     perceived as significant.
114.      When a credit institution assesses that there has been a significant increase in credit risk
     for some, but not all, of its lending exposures to a counterparty — for example, because of
     differences in the timing of when lending was provided — it should ensure that all lending
     exposures are identified where there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
                                                                                                     43

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
115.      Where a credit institution makes the assessment of significant increases in credit risk on a
     collective basis (i.e. such as retail), the definitions of portfolios should be reviewed regularly
     to ensure that the lending exposures within them continue to share risk characteristics in
     terms of their response to credit risk drivers. Changing economic conditions may require
     regrouping.
116.      In line with paragraph B5.5.1 of IFRS 9 on the assessment of significant increases in credit
     risk since initial recognition on a collective basis, in instances where it is apparent that, within
     a group of lending exposures, some lending exposures have experienced a significant increase
     in credit risk, credit institutions should transfer a subset or a proportion of the group of
     lending exposures to lifetime ECL measurement even though it is not possible to identify this
     on an individual lending exposure basis (see IFRS 9, Illustrative Example 5).
117.      Consistent with paragraph B5.5.6 of IFRS 9 and paragraph IE39 of the Implementation
     Guidance for IFRS 9, if it is not possible on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics to
     identify a particular subgroup of lending exposures for which credit risk has increased
     significantly, an appropriate proportion of the overall group should be subject to lifetime ECL
     measurement.
118.      ‘Significant’ should not be equated with statistical significance, meaning that the
     assessment approach should not be based solely on quantitative analysis. For portfolios which
     have a large number of individually small credits, and a rich set of relevant historical data, it
     may be possible to identify ‘significant’ increases in credit risk in part by using statistical
     techniques. However, for other lending exposures, that may not be feasible.
119.      ‘Significant’ should also not be judged in terms of the extent of impact on a credit
     institution’s primary financial statements. Identification and disclosure of significant increases
     in credit risk should be undertaken, even where an increase in credit risk defined in terms of
     probability of default is unlikely to affect the allowance made — for example, because the
     exposure is more than fully collateralised — to allow credit institutions to identify and
     disclose such increases which are likely to be important to users seeking to understand trends
     in the intrinsic credit risk of a credit institution’s lending exposures.
120.      In accordance with IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.9, the assessment of significant increases in
     credit risk is based on comparing credit risk on exposures at the reporting date relative to
     credit risk upon initial recognition. IFRS 9, paragraph BC 5.161, and Illustrative Example 6
     represent an example of the application of this principle in the Standard, rather than an
     exception to that principle. This example suggests that credit institutions can set a maximum
     credit risk for particular portfolios upon initial recognition that would lead to that portfolio
     moving to lifetime ECL measurement when credit risk increases beyond that maximum level.
     This simplification is only relevant when exposures are segmented on a sufficiently granular
     basis such that a credit institution can demonstrate that the analysis is consistent with the
     principles of IFRS 9. Specifically, credit institutions should be able to demonstrate that a
                                                                                                       44

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     significant increase in credit risk had not occurred for items in the portfolio before the
     maximum credit grade was reached.
121.      Credit institutions should rigorously review the quality of their approach to assessing
     whether credit risk has increased significantly. A credit institution’s management body or
     senior management should consider whether there are additional factors that should be
     taken into account in the assessment of significant increases in credit risk which would
     improve the quality of their approach.
122.      Credit institutions should be alert to any possibility of bias being introduced that would
     prevent the objectives of IFRS 9 from being met. In cases where credit institutions believe
     that their approach to implementation is likely to have introduced bias, they should change
     their assessment for identified bias and thus ensure that the objective of the Standard is met
     (see in particular IFRS 9, paragraphs B5.5.1-B5.5.6).
123.      IFRS 9, in paragraphs 5.5.12 and B5.5.25-B5.5.27, sets out the requirements for the
     assessment of significant increases in credit risk for lending exposures whose contractual cash
     flows have been renegotiated or modified. In particular, for modifications that do not result in
     derecognition in accordance with IFRS 9, an entity must assess whether credit risk has
     increased significantly by comparing (a) the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date
     based on the modified contractual terms with (b) the risk of default occurring upon initial
     recognition based on the original, unmodified contractual terms.
124.      Credit institutions should ensure that modifications or renegotiations do not obscure
     increases in credit risk and thereby cause ECL to be underestimated and to delay the transfer
     to lifetime ECL for obligors whose credit risk has significantly deteriorated, or inappropriately
     result in a move from lifetime ECL measurement back to 12-month ECL measurement.
125.      When determining whether there is a significant increase in credit risk for a modified
     lending exposure, credit institutions should be able to demonstrate, and should take into
     account when developing ECL estimates, whether such modifications or renegotiations have
     improved or restored the ability of the credit institution to collect interest and principal
     payments compared with the situation upon initial recognition. Consideration should also be
     given to the substance of modified contractual cash flows as well as the implications of the
     modifications for the future credit risk of the lending exposure (taking into consideration the
     obligor’s credit risk). Factors to consider include, but are not limited to, the following:
a. whether the modification or renegotiation of the contractual terms and resulting cash flows is
     economically beneficial to the obligor, compared with the original, unmodified contractual
     terms, and how the modification economically affects the obligor’s ability to repay the debt;
b. whether factors can be identified that support a credit institution’s assessment of the
     obligor’s ability to repay the debt, including circumstances leading up to the modification, and
     future prospects of the obligor as a result of the modifications, considering current
     conditions, macroeconomic forecasts, and prospects for the sector/industry within which the
                                                                                                   45

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     obligor operates, the obligor’s business model, and the obligor’s business (management) plan
     that outlines the obligor’s expectations of its future performance, financial resilience and cash
     flows; and
c. whether the obligor’s business plan is feasible, realisable and consistent with the repayment
     schedule of interest and principal under the modified contractual terms of the lending
     exposure.
126.      Lending exposures transferred to lifetime ECL that are subsequently renegotiated or
     modified, and not derecognised, should not move back to 12-month ECL measurement unless
     there is sufficient evidence that the credit risk over the life of the exposure has not increased
     significantly compared with that upon initial recognition. For example, where a credit
     institution grants various concessions such as interest rate reductions or postponements of
     principal repayments to obligors in financial difficulty, the lending exposure may exhibit
     characteristics of a lower credit risk even though in reality the obligor may continue to
     experience financial difficulty with no realistic prospects of making scheduled repayments
     over the remaining term of the exposure. In accordance with paragraph B5.5.27 of IFRS 9
     ‘evidence that the criteria for the recognition of lifetime ECL are no longer met could include
     a history of up-to-date and timely payment performance against the modified contractual
     terms. Typically, a customer would need to demonstrate consistently good payment
     behaviour over a period of time before the credit risk is considered to have decreased. For
     example, a history of missed or incomplete payments would not typically be erased by simply
     making one payment on time following a modification of the contractual terms’.
    4.3.3           Use of practical expedients
127.      IFRS 9 includes a number of practical expedients, intended to ease the implementation
     burden for a wide range of companies in recognition of the fact that IFRS 9 will be used by a
     variety of entities, including entities outside the banking industry.
128.      The paragraphs below address the following practical expedients: the information set
     which an entity must consider in measuring ECL; the exception for ‘low’ credit risk exposures;
     and the 30-days-past-due rebuttable presumption.
129.      Credit institutions should make limited use of those practical expedients as they have the
     potential to introduce significant bias and because — given their business — the cost of
     obtaining the relevant information is not likely to involve ‘undue cost or effort’. Credit
     institutions should consider the need to make adjustments when using practical expedients to
     avoid any resulting bias, as they should take into account that the objective of IFRS 9 is to
     estimate expected credit losses to reflect an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that
     is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes (IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.17).
130.      Where a credit institution uses such practical expedients, justifications for the use of
     practical expedients should be clearly documented by the credit institution.
                                                                                                    46

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
The information set
131.      IFRS 9, paragraph B5.5.15, states that ´an entity shall consider reasonable and
     supportable information that is available without undue cost and effort´ and that ‘an entity
     need not undertake an exhaustive search for information when determining whether credit
     risk has increased significantly since initial recognition’. Credit institutions should not read
     these statements restrictively and should develop systems and processes that use all
     reasonable and supportable information that is relevant to the group of exposures or
     individual exposure, as needed to achieve a high-quality, robust and consistent
     implementation of the accounting requirements. Nevertheless, additional cost and
     operational burden do not need to be introduced where they do not contribute to a high-
     quality implementation of IFRS 9.
‘Low credit risk’ exemption
132.      In accordance with paragraph 5.5.10 of IFRS 9, ´an entity may assume that the credit risk
     on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition if the financial
     instrument is determined to have a low credit risk at the reporting date´. Although credit
     institutions thus have the option for ‘low credit risk’ exposures not to assess whether credit
     risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, use of this exemption should be
     limited. In particular, credit institutions should conduct timely assessment of significant
     increases in credit risk for all lending exposures.
133.      In that context, credit institutions should always recognise changes in 12-month ECL
     through the allowance where there is not a significant increase in credit risk and move lending
     exposures to lifetime ECL measurement, if there is a significant increase in credit risk. In order
     to achieve a high-quality implementation of IFRS 9, any use of the low-credit-risk exemption
     should be accompanied by clear evidence that credit risk as of the reporting date is
     sufficiently low that a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition could not have
     occurred.
134.      To illustrate the meaning of low credit risk in IFRS 9, paragraph B5.5.22, IFRS 9,
     paragraph B5.5.23, cites as an example an instrument with an external ‘investment grade’
     rating. However, all lending exposures that have an ‘investment grade’ rating from a credit
     rating agency cannot automatically be considered low credit risk. Credit institutions should
     rely primarily on their own credit risk assessments in order to evaluate the credit risk of a
     lending exposure, and not rely solely or mechanistically on ratings provided by credit rating
     agencies (where the latter are available). Nevertheless, optimistic internal credit ratings, as
     compared with external ratings, should require additional analysis and justification by a credit
     institution’s management body or senior management.
More-than-30-days-past-due rebuttable presumption
135.      Credit institutions should have credit risk assessment and management processes in place
     to ensure that significant credit risk increases are detected well ahead of exposures becoming
                                                                                                       47

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     past due or delinquent. Although the use of the more-than-30-days-past-due rebuttable
     presumption as a backstop measure is not precluded in accordance with IFRS 9 alongside
     other, earlier indicators for assessing significant increase in credit risk, credit institutions
     should avoid using it as a primary indicator of transfer to lifetime ECL.
136.      Any assertion that the more-than-30-days-past-due presumption is rebutted on the basis
     that there has not been a significant increase in credit risk should be accompanied by a
     thorough analysis clearly demonstrating that 30 days past due is not correlated with a
     significant increase in credit risk 32. Such analysis should consider both current and reasonable
     and supportable forward-looking information that may cause future cash shortfalls to differ
     from historical experience.
137.      In this regard, credit institutions should use relevant forward-looking information that is
     reasonable and supportable to analyse whether there is any substantive relationship between
     such information and credit risk drivers. Credit institutions should not use the 30-days-past-
     due rebuttable presumption unless they have demonstrated that the forward-looking
     information had no substantive relationship with the credit risk driver or such information is
     not available without undue cost or effort.
138.      In the limited instances where past-due information is the best criterion available to a
     credit institution to determine when exposures should move to the lifetime ECL category,
     credit institutions should pay particular attention to their measurement of 12-month ECL
     allowance to ensure that ECL are appropriately captured in accordance with the
     measurement objective of IFRS 9. Moreover, credit institutions should take into account that
     significant reliance on backward-looking information will introduce bias into the
     implementation of an ECL accounting model and that they should ensure that the objectives
     of the IFRS 9 impairment requirements (i.e. to reflect ECL that meet the stated measurement
     objectives and to capture all significant increases in credit risk) are met.
32
   For example, in some jurisdictions it is common practice for borrowers to delay repayment for certain exposures, but
history shows that those missed payments are fully recouped in the succeeding months.
                                                                                                                    48

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
4.4 Supervisory evaluation of credit risk practices, accounting for
expected credit losses and capital adequacy
    4.4.1           Principle 1 — Credit risk management assessment
Competent authorities should periodically evaluate the effectiveness of a credit institution’s
credit risk practices.
139.      Competent authorities should be satisfied that credit institutions have adopted and
     adhered to the sound credit risk practices described in these guidelines. Competent
     authorities’ evaluation should include, but not be limited to, whether:
a. the credit institution’s internal credit risk review function is robust and encompasses all
     lending exposures;
b. the quality of a credit institution’s processes and systems for identifying, classifying,
     monitoring and addressing changes in credit risk for all lending exposures in a timely manner
     is adequate, and management’s experienced credit judgement considers current conditions
     and forward-looking information, including macroeconomic factors, and is well documented;
c. the credit institution’s processes reflect the risk appetite of the credit institution in a manner
     that ensures lending exposures on which credit risk has increased since origination or
     purchase to a level in excess of the credit institution’s risk appetite are promptly identified
     and properly monitored, and ECL allowance estimates appropriately reflect the increases in
     the credit risk of these exposures as increases are identified. Where a credit institution
     originates or purchases a lending exposure on which credit risk at acquisition exceeds the
     institution’s risk appetite and which therefore represents an exception to the institution’s
     lending policies and standards, competent authorities should evaluate whether the institution
     has established and adheres to appropriate processes and controls for: the initial
     identification, review, approval and documentation of such exposures; the reporting of such
     policy exceptions to senior management and, for individually significant exposures, to the
     management body; and the proper monitoring of such exposures after initial recognition.
     Competent authorities should also evaluate whether the credit institution’s processes and
     controls separately identify ECL allowance estimates related to exposures consistent with the
     credit institution’s risk appetite and those related to riskier lending exposures;
d. appropriate information about the credit risk of lending exposures, changes in credit risk, the
     related ECL allowance and changes in allowance estimates is provided to the credit
     institution’s management body and senior management on a regular (for example, quarterly
     or, if warranted, more frequent) basis;
e. forecasts included in credit risk assessments and measurements are not only reasonable and
     supportable, but are also consistent with forecasts used for other purposes by the credit
     institution, all of which are made available to competent authorities; and
                                                                                                   49

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
f.   the credit institution’s policies and procedures for validating the accuracy and consistency of
     its internal credit risk assessment models are robust.
140.      In making these evaluations, competent authorities may require credit institutions to
     provide supplemental information, not publicly disclosed, through regular supervisory
     reporting, ad hoc reporting or on-site examinations. Competent authorities could also use
     these approaches for obtaining supplemental information when performing the evaluations
     called for in the principles below.
    4.4.2           Principle 2 — ECL measurement assessment
Competent authorities should be satisfied that the methods employed by a credit institution to
determine accounting allowances lead to an appropriate measurement of ECL in accordance with
the applicable accounting framework.
141.      In assessing the methods employed by a credit institution to estimate allowances,
     competent authorities should be satisfied that the credit institution is following policies and
     practices consistent with the ECL measurement principles outlined in these guidelines,
     including, but not limited to, the following:
a. the procedures used by a credit institution to measure ECL are robust and timely and take
     into account criteria such as updated valuations of credit risk mitigants (and, in particular,
     collateral, the residual risk after taking into account the mitigants, the correlation of that risk
     with borrowers’ creditworthiness and the potential impact in terms of the effectiveness of
     protection), cash flow estimates based on assessments of borrower-specific factors and
     current and future macroeconomic conditions, together with other relevant forward-looking
     information that affects the expected collectability of the credit institution’s lending
     exposure;
b. the framework and methodology for establishing allowances, whether determined
     collectively or individually, are robust;
c. aggregate allowances on lending exposures are appropriate in accordance with relevant
     accounting requirements and in relation to the credit risk exposure in the credit institution’s
     portfolio;
d. uncollectability is recognised in the appropriate period through allowances or write-offs; and
e. regardless of the method used to determine ECL, the credit institution’s internal processes for
     measuring ECL take account of the credit risk that the credit institution has taken on and
     changes in the credit risk of the credit institution’s lending exposures.
142.      Competent authorities should scrutinise the use of practical expedients referred to in
     section 4.3 to determine the appropriateness of ECL measurement.
                                                                                                     50

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
143.      Competent authorities may make use of the work performed by internal and external
     auditors in reviewing a credit institution’s credit risk assessment and ECL measurement
     functions 33.
    4.4.3           Principle 3 — Capital adequacy assessment
    Competent authorities should also consider a credit institution’s credit risk practices when
    assessing a credit institution’s overall capital adequacy.
144.      In assessing the appropriateness of the level of allowances for lending exposures as an
     element of a credit institution’s overall capital adequacy, competent authorities should look
     at their credit risk practices and take into account that the credit institution’s related ECL
     processes, methodology and underlying assumptions require the exercise of a substantial
     degree of experienced credit judgement.
145.      In performing their assessments, competent authorities should consider whether a credit
     institution has:
a. maintained effective systems and controls for identifying, measuring, monitoring and
     controlling the level of credit risk, significant increases in credit risk and asset quality
     problems in a timely manner;
b. analysed all significant relevant factors that affect credit risk and the collectability of the
     portfolio; and
c. established an acceptable allowance estimation process that, at a minimum, meets the
     principles set out in these guidelines, including the relevant accounting requirements.
146.      When assessing capital adequacy, competent authorities should consider how a credit
     institution’s accounting and credit risk assessment policies and practices affect the
     measurement of the credit institution’s assets and earnings and, therefore, its capital
     position.
147.      Where competent authorities identify deficiencies when assessing a credit institution’s
     credit risk practices, they should consider how these deficiencies affect the level of reported
     allowances and, if the aggregate amount of allowances is not appropriate under the
     applicable accounting framework, the competent authority should discuss this with the credit
     institution’s senior management and management body and take further appropriate
     supervisory action when necessary.
148.      In particular, to the extent that credit risk assessment or ECL measurement deficiencies
     are significant or are not remedied on a timely basis, competent authorities should consider
33
   EBA Guidelines on Internal Governance (GL44) and EBA Guidelines on communication between competent
authorities and statutory auditors (EBA/GL/2016/05)
                                                                                                  51

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
     imposing additional own funds requirements pursuant to Article 104 under Section III,
     Chapter 2, Title VII of Directive 2013/36/EU.
                                                                                      52

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
5. Accompanying documents
5.1 Cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment
Article 16(2) of the EBA Regulation provides that, where appropriate, the EBA should analyse ‘the
related potential costs and benefits’ of guidelines issued by the EBA. Such analysis shall be
proportionate in relation to the scope, nature and impact of the guidelines. The following section
provides an impact assessment (‘IA’) of the guidelines. It includes an overview of the findings
regarding the problem to be dealt with, the solutions and the potential impact of these options.
A. Problem identification
High-quality and consistent application of accounting standards are the basis for the effective
and consistent application of regulatory capital requirements.
Accounting frameworks are commonly principles-based and credit institutions should use
judgement when applying the accounting standards, with the objective of providing useful
financial information to the users. In this regard, the use of judgement plays a fundamental role in
some areas of accounting. For this reason, it is important for competent authorities to promote a
high-quality and consistent application of the accounting standards which would also help in the
comparability of financial statements across institutions. In addition, it would be a concern for
competent authorities if, as a result of a low-quality implementation of the accounting standards,
credit institutions have inadequate levels of ECL allowances relative to the credit risk of the loan
portfolios, for instance if credit institutions minimise the effort to consider forward-looking
information, which is a central feature of an expected credit loss (‘ECL’) model.
In addition, a significant number of credit institutions apply the IFRS Standards as these are
incorporated into the EU legal framework through EU regulations, in accordance with the
procedures set out in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002. IFRS 9, which will replace IAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for the accounting periods beginning on or after
1 January 2018 34, requires among other things measurement of impairment loss provisions based
on an ECL accounting model rather than on an incurred loss accounting model.
The application of IFRS 9 also requires the use of judgement in the ECL assessment and
measurement process, which could potentially affect the consistent application of IFRS 9 across
institutions and the comparability of credit institutions’ financial statements. Therefore, the
existence of supervisory guidance emphasises the importance of high-quality, robust and
consistent application of IFRS 9 and could help promote consistent interpretations and practices.
34
   Commission Regulation (EU) No 2016/2067 of 22 November 2016 amending Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008 adopting
certain international accounting standards in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European
Parliament and of the Council as regards IFRS 9.
                                                                                                          53

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
This will also be the case if, under national generally applied accounting principles (‘GAAP’), credit
institutions apply an expected credit loss model.
In addition, at an international level, in December 2015, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (‘BCBS’) issued supervisory guidance on credit risk and accounting for expected credit
losses (the ‘BCBS guidance’), which sets out supervisory expectations for credit institutions
related to sound credit risk practices associated with implementing and applying an ECL
accounting model and specific guidance for credit institutions applying IFRS Standards.
B. Policy objectives
At a higher level, these guidelines aim to ensure common, uniform and consistent application of
Union law and to establish consistent, efficient and effective supervisory practices within the
European System of Financial Supervision (ESFS) 35 supporting financial stability, safety and
soundness of the EU banking sector 36. These guidelines aim also at ensuring a level playing field at
the international level, by introducing the BCBS guidance in the EU regulatory framework.
At a more specific level, these guidelines aim at:
     a) promoting the consistent application of accounting requirements related to the
          application of an expected loss accounting framework, leading to comparable financial
          information; and
     b) promoting the high-quality and robust application of an expected loss accounting
          framework, leading to the estimation of adequate amounts of expected credit losses.
C. Baseline scenario
Without the proposed regulatory intervention to specify sound credit risk practices associated
with the accounting for expected credit losses, the application of the accounting requirements for
expected credit losses by credit institutions may result in a low-quality implementation of the
applicable accounting requirements. These adverse effects would be amplified by the unlevel-
playing field that will exist across credit institutions at an international level, when the BCBS
guidance is applied at an international level, but no equivalent regulation has been developed in
the EU.
35
        See      also      EBA,      2016-2018       Multi-Annual  Work      Programme,      available    at
https://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/1232192/EBA+Multi+annual+Work+Programme+2016-2018.pdf.
36
   EBA, Annual Report 2015 (forthcoming); Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the
Council establishing the European Banking Authority (amended).
                                                                                                         54

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
D. Options considered
In developing these guidelines, a number of technical options have been considered regarding the
following:
D1. Necessity of EBA regulatory intervention
Option 1.1: Abstain from regulatory intervention
Option 1.2: Issue own initiative guidelines pursuant to Article 16 of the EBA Regulation
D2. Proportionality approach
Option 2.1: Apply the guidelines in a proportionate manner without defining specific criteria
Option 2.2: Develop criteria on the application of the proportionality approach and exclude
smaller/less complex credit institutions in certain cases
Option 2.3: Develop criteria on the application of the proportionality approach and include
additional requirements for systemically important and other credit institutions in certain cases
D3. Addressees of guidelines
Option 3.1: Include all institutions within the scope
Option 3.2: Limit the scope to credit institutions
E. Cost-benefit analysis
The incremental costs and benefits of these guidelines, both one-off and ongoing costs,
predominantly affect credit institutions and competent authorities.
The costs and benefits analysis includes the incremental costs and benefits besides those related
to the application of IFRS 9, which will be generated from the application of these guidelines. It
should also be considered that under national GAAP some Member States may also move
towards the application of an ECL model, and these guidelines are also applicable in that case.
D1. Necessity of EBA regulatory intervention
Benefits: The benefits of not issuing own initiative guidelines (option 1.1) would be full flexibility
for the credit institutions in applying the accounting requirements of IFRS 9, without any
additional costs in order to ensure the application of these guidelines, which provide the
supervisory expectations for a high-quality implementation of the accounting requirements.
These costs to credit institutions include costs incremental to the costs occurring under IFRS 9 and
relate to administrative costs, infrastructure costs (data, systems, tools and processes), and the
cost of training and recruiting staff in order to ensure high-quality implementation of the
                                                                                                   55

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
accounting requirements. Costs to competent authorities relate to the additional costs during the
supervisory assessment of the credit risk management practices and the supervisory response to
this assessment (administrative costs, cost of training and recruitment of staff).
Costs: In the absence of the proposed regulatory intervention (option 1.1), increased use of
judgement in the application of principles-based accounting requirements related to credit risk
under IFRS 9 would be a source of prudential concern. This could result in a low-quality and
inconsistent implementation of IFRS 9, and therefore in inadequate levels of ECL allowances
relative to the credit risk of the loan portfolios — for instance if credit institutions minimise the
effort to consider forward-looking information, which is a central feature of an expected credit
loss model. This can have an adverse effect on the comparability of financial statements and the
capital adequacy of credit institutions. These adverse effects would be amplified by the unlevel-
playing field that will exist across credit institutions at an international level, when the BCBS
guidance is applied at an international level, but no equivalent regulation has been developed in
the EU. Therefore, the policy objectives of these guidelines would not be met.
In terms of the extent of the use of IFRS Standards across credit institutions in the EU, the EBA
estimated the number of credit institutions applying IFRS Standards on a consolidated basis (table
of data by Member State at the end of section D1). These estimates are based on data for each
Member State published by the ECB 37, the supervisory data submitted by credit institutions 38
(FINREP) and EBA aggregated statistical data 39, with some adjustments/simplifications where data
were not readily available.
Credit institutions applying IFRS Standards or national GAAP
As of 31 December 2014, 5 906 credit institution 40 in the EU reported EUR 43.7 trillion of total
assets. These credit institutions may use IFRS Standards or other accounting frameworks (for
example national accounting standards 41). In addition, the sum of loans and advances for all credit
institutions represents 55% of the total assets, being on average 64% of total assets and ranging
between 38% and 77% of ‘total assets’ across Member States. Therefore, the subject matter of
these guidelines is relevant to a significant component — if not the most significant in some cases
— of the total assets of a credit institution 42.
37
      ECB     Statistical    Data     Warehouse      (Consolidated      banking      data     current),   available     at
http://sdw.ecb.int/browse.do?node=9689600.
38
   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014 of 16 April 2014 laying down implementing technical
standards with regard to supervisory reporting of institutions according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the
European Parliament and of the Council Text with EEA relevance (OJ L 191, 28.6.2014, p. 1-1861), available at
http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:JOL_2014_191_R_0001.
39
   http://www.eba.europa.eu/supervisory-convergence/supervisory-disclosure/aggregate-statistical-data
40
   The total number of credit institutions includes entities at different levels of consolidation under the CRR scope of
consolidation (individual, sub-consolidated and consolidated levels).
41
   Some credit institutions applying national GAAP may also be part of a group that apply IFRS Standards on a
consolidated basis and therefore will also need to apply IFRS Standards to provide the data at the consolidated level.
42
   In addition, these guidelines also apply to loan commitments given and financial guarantee contracts given, and
therefore a larger amount of exposures are subject to IFRS.
                                                                                                                       56

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Credit institutions applying IFRS Standards
Of the total number of credit institutions in the EU, 156 credit institutions submit supervisory data
under IFRS Standards on a consolidated basis 43. Although this number is low compared with the
total number of credit institutions in the EU (only 3%), these credit institutions on aggregate
represent EUR 32.5 trillion or 75% of the total assets of all credit institutions in the EU as of
31 December 2014, representing on average 64% of total assets and ranging between 27% and
100% of ‘total assets’ across Member States. In addition, loans and advances of these credit
institutions represent 53% of the total assets for the sample of 156 credit institutions, being on
average 61% of ‘total assets’ and ranging between 27% and 81% of total assets across Member
States. Therefore, IFRS Standards are applied in a significant part of the total number of credit
institutions in the EU, covering the majority of the total assets of all credit institutions. For these
credit institutions, loans and advances are a significant component — if not the most significant in
some cases — of their total assets.
In addition, according to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 44, Member States may require or permit
the application of IFRS Standards to the consolidated financial statements of entities whose
securities do not trade in a regulated securities market or to the annual financial statements
(traded on regulated markets or otherwise). In particular, as indicated by the latest stock-take of
the Commission in December 2013 on the use of the options provided in Regulation (EC)
No 1606/2002 45, in some Member States, IFRS Standards are mandatorily applied for all or some
types of entities in their consolidated financial statements (16 Member States) and individual
financial statements (13 Member States). In the majority of Member States (all but six Member
States), entities may apply IFRS Standards on a voluntary basis. In many cases where IFRS
Standards are required, credit institutions are among the types of entities to which IFRS
mandatorily apply. Therefore, across Member States, more credit institutions than those applying
IFRS Standards for supervisory reporting 46 apply IFRS, and these guidelines are also relevant to
these credit institutions. In addition, in some Member States’ credit institutions may apply IFRS
Standards only for supervisory reporting (financial statements will be prepared under national
GAAP).
In conclusion, the subject matter (loans and advances) and the scope of application of these
guidelines (more than 75% of the total assets of the EU banking sector) indicate that these
guidelines are relevant to a significant part of the EU banking sector, and the issuance of EBA own
initiative guidelines in order to meet the objectives of the guidelines noted above is considered to
be of high importance. The potential costs, if the objectives of these guidelines are not met in the
43
   Credit institutions may also submit supervisory data under IFRS Standards on an individual and/or sub-consolidated
basis under national regulation.
44
   Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of
international      accounting     standards   (http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX:02002R1606-
20080410).
45
   http://ec.europa.eu/finance/company-reporting/docs/legal_framework/20140718-ias-use-of-options_en.pdf
46
   Supervisory reporting includes the consolidated financial statements of credit institutions applying IFRS Standards
(including both listed and non-listed).
                                                                                                                   57

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
absence of EBA guidelines, would be amplified by the broad relevance of the subject matter of
these guidelines to a significant part of the EU banking sector.
Preferred option: The costs of not issuing own initiative guidelines would be higher than the
benefits of not issuing own initiative guidelines. The issuance of EBA own initiative guidelines is
expected to create net benefits in the functioning of the internal market and the establishment of
a level playing field internationally and is thus the preferred option (option 1.2).
                                                                                                58

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                        All banks in EU - IFRS and non-IFRS - as of 31.12.14                                           Banks submitting FINREP IFRS as of 31.12.14
                                                                                                       Total number                          Total assets of
                Total                                                                       Total
                                                                           Loans and                   of IFRS banks -                         IFRS banks -                            Loans and
  Member number of                                    Loans and                           number of                                                                Loans and
                                Total assets                             advances/ Total               FINREP/ Total     Total assets         FINREP/ Total                          advances/ Total
    State      credit                                 advances                              credit                                                                 advances
                                                                             assets                    number of all                         assets of all EU                            assets
            institutions                                                                 institutions
                                                                                                          EU banks                                banks
                             amount in € billions  amount in € billions                                                amount in € billions                     amount in € billions
     AT               790 *                 1,079                    764             71%             8             1%                    709              66%                    490            69%
     BE                15                      996                   612             61%             7            47%                 1,025             100% **                  542            53%
     BG                25                       44                    31             70%             3            12%                     18              41%                     14            77%
     CY                36                       76                    55             73%             3             8%                     47              63%                     33            70%
     CZ                39                      182                   114             63%             3             8%                     99              55%                     59            59%
     DE             1,648                   7,062                 4,218              60%            14             1%                 4,097               58%                 1,924             47%
     DK                79                      912                   631             69%             4             5%                    716              78%                    197            27%
     EE                15                       22                    16             73%             2            13%                     14              64%                     10            73%
      EL               39                      369                   244             66%             4            10%                    349              95%                    227            65%
     ES               286 *                 3,576                 2,279              64%            14             5%                 3,249               91%                 2,003             62%
      FI              306 *                    573                   307             54%             3             1%                    473              82%                    189            40%
     FR               386 *                 7,187                 3,896              54%            11             3%                 6,929               96%                 3,309             48%
     HR                29                       57                    43             77%             3            10%                     34              61%                     28            81%
     HU               153                      101                    73             72%             3             2%                     49              48%                     35            71%
      IE               24                      503                   307             61%             4            17%                    327              65%                    202            62%
      IT              684 *                 2,701                 1,814              67%            15             2%                 2,276               84%                 1,502             66%
      LT               15                       24                    17             69%             3            20%                     17              70%                     12            74%
     LU               142                      811                   576             71%             6             4%                    274              34%                    181            66%
     LV                26                       31                    18             58%             3            12%                     13              42%                      7            55%
     MT                25                       52                    25             47%             2             8%                     14              27%                      7            51%
     NL                83                   2,529                 1,807              71%             5             6%                 2,134               84%                 1,475             69%
     PL               627                      361                   246             68%             3             0%                    128              36%                     87            68%
     PT               107                      426                   275             65%             6             6%                    324              76%                    209            65%
     RO                38                       82                    48             58%             3             8%                     32              39%                     18            56%
     SE                58                   1,636                 1,059              65%             7            12%                 1,466               90%                    804            55%
      SI               21                       41                    27             66%             2            10%                     16              39%                      9            56%
     SK                28                       62                    44             70%             3            11%                     34              55%                     24            71%
     UK               182                 12,177                  4,688              38%            12             7%                 7,683               63%                 3,757             49%
   All EU           5,906                 43,671                24,234               55%           156             3%               32,547                75%               17,355              53%
                                                                    min              38%                                                                  27%                                   27%
                                                              median                 66%                                                                  64%                                   63%
                                                              average                64%                                                                  64%                                   61%
                                                                    max              77%                                                                100%                                    81%
  *Data as of 31 December 2013 based on EBA aggregate statistical data on each Member State's banking sector.
  ** Adjusted due to differences in data sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                     59

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
D2. Proportionality approach
Option 2.1 Apply the guidelines in a proportionate manner without defining specific criteria
This option would require credit institutions to apply the guidelines in a proportionate manner,
without providing more specific criteria to distinguish between entities.
Benefits: The criteria to be used to decide how to apply the proportionality approach are
consistent with the criteria set out in the BCBS guidance. In addition, this option requires
compliance in outcome, which is the application of sound credit risk and accounting practices by
all credit institutions, providing freedom of means for achieving that according to the assessment
of specific proportionality criteria. Therefore, any additional incremental costs of applying these
guidelines would be reduced to the maximum extent possible, since the application of the
guidelines would be tailored to the specificities of a credit institution. Furthermore, this option
does not raise the risks of introducing any thresholds (‘bright lines’) to be mechanically applied.
Costs: This option would not achieve full convergence of practices across credit institutions and
Member States, because it would depend on the ability of the credit institutions and the
competent authorities to apply the guidelines in a proportionate manner consistently.
Option 2.2 Develop criteria on the application of the proportionality approach and exclude
smaller/less complex credit institutions in certain cases
As with option 2.1, this option would require credit institutions to apply the guidelines in a
proportionate manner, without providing more specific requirements on how to apply the
requirements in different circumstances, except for smaller/less complex credit institutions for
which the application of the practical expedients of IFRS 9 would be explicitly permitted. For other
credit institutions, the application of the practical expedients of IFRS 9 should be limited.
Benefits: As with option 2.1, this option requires compliance in outcome, which is the application
of sound credit risk and accounting practices by all credit institutions, providing freedom of means
for achieving that according to the assessment of specific proportionality criteria. In addition, this
option explicitly permits smaller/less complex credit institutions to apply the practical expedients
of IFRS 9, and hence ensures consistent requirements for smaller/less complex credit institutions.
Costs: As with option 2.1, this option would not achieve full convergence of practices across credit
institutions and Member States, because it would depend on the ability of the credit institutions
and the competent authorities to apply the guidelines in a proportionate manner consistently.
However, there might be more harmonisation than in option 2.1, since, for the simpler/less
complex credit institutions, the same requirements will be applied, leading to further
convergence of practices across credit institutions and Member States.
In addition, the application of criteria for the identification of smaller/less complex credit
institutions may increase the risk of introducing thresholds to be mechanically applied in
                                                                                                    60

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
identifying these institutions, without a thorough assessment of whether the guidelines should be
applied or not. Furthermore, permitting smaller/less complex credit institutions to apply the
practical expedients of IFRS 9 through these guidelines may be perceived as encouraging the use
of practical expedients in general when it could be avoided, which would also be inconsistent with
the objectives of IFRS 9, these guidelines and the BCBS guidance. Lastly, the application of two
different proportionality approaches (for the use of practical expedients and for the guidelines
overall) could increase complexity and be operationally burdensome to credit institutions when
applying these guidelines.
Option 2.3 Develop criteria on the application of the proportionality approach and include
additional requirements for systemically important and other credit institutions in certain cases
As with option 2.1, this option would require credit institutions to apply the guidelines in a
proportionate manner, without providing more specific requirements on how to apply the
requirements in different circumstances, except for systemically important credit institutions 47
and other credit institutions designated by the competent authorities based on an assessment of
specific criteria. For these credit institutions, the application of the practical expedients of IFRS 9
should be limited. In addition, as with option 2.2, this option also permits smaller/less complex
credit institutions to apply the practical expedients of IFRS 9.
Benefits: As with option 2.1, this option requires compliance in outcome, which is the application
of sound credit risk and accounting practices by all credit institutions, providing freedom of means
for achieving that according to the assessment of specific proportionality criteria. In addition,
under this option the application of practical expedients of IFRS 9 by systemically important credit
institutions or other credit institutions should be limited, and hence it ensures consistent
requirements for these credit institutions.
Costs: As with option 2.1 and 2.2, this option would not achieve full convergence of practices
across credit institutions and Member States, because it would depend on the ability of the credit
institutions and the competent authorities to apply the guidelines in a proportionate manner
consistently. However, as in option 2.2, there might be more harmonisation than in option 2.1,
since, for the systemically important credit institutions and other credit institutions, the same
requirements will be applied, leading to further convergence of practices across credit institutions
and Member States. In addition, as in option 2.2, the application of two different proportionality
approaches (for the use of practical expedients and for the guidelines overall) could increase
complexity and be operationally burdensome to credit institutions when applying these
guidelines.
47
   For more information on the identification of and criteria to assess systemically important institutions (SIIs), see also
the     relevant     (revised)    EBA’s     Guidelines    and     Binding       Technical  Standards,      available      at
http://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/own-funds/guidelines-for-the-identification-of-global-systemically-
important-institutions-g-siis- (for G-SIIs) and http://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/own-funds/guidelines-
on-criteria-to-to-assess-other-systemically-important-institutions-o-siis- (for O-SIIs).
                                                                                                                         61

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Of most importance, the application of criteria for the identification of systemically important
credit institutions or other credit institutions may increase the risk of introducing thresholds to
be mechanically applied in identifying these institutions, without a thorough assessment of
whether the guidelines should be applied or not. Furthermore, limiting the use of practical
expedients of IFRS 9 only to systemically important credit institutions or other credit institutions
through these guidelines may be perceived as encouraging the use of practical expedients in
general when it could be avoided, which would also be inconsistent with the objectives of IFRS 9,
these guidelines and the BCBS guidance.
Preferred option: The costs of including a proportionality approach which exempts some credit
institutions from applying the requirements of the guidelines (options 2.2 and 2.3) would be
disproportionate to the benefits of additional convergence of practices across the EU. A mix of
options 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 which, while proposing the application of the general proportionality
approach, also includes criteria for the application of the proportionality approach but without
introducing a mechanistic approach or creating additional complexity, introduces a more
proportional approach in the application of the guidelines. This is expected to create net benefits
in the functioning of the internal market and the establishment of a level playing field
internationally, and is thus the preferred option 48.
D3. Addressees of guidelines
Benefits: Including all institutions as addressees of the guidelines (option 3.1) avoids the risk of
introducing any thresholds to be mechanically applied for excluding some types of institutions
from the application of the guidelines, and ensures a level playing field across all institutions in
the EU.
Costs: Requiring that these guidelines be applied by all institutions (option 3.1) would pose
unnecessary cost and burden for some institutions which are not active in the lending business
and, in particular, the investment firms. The business of lending is less relevant to investment
firms and therefore the requirements of these guidelines on credit risk and accounting for
expected credit losses would not be as relevant to them. Hence the costs of requiring compliance
with these guidelines would outweigh the related benefits from applying these guidelines.
Preferred option: The costs of including investment firms within the addressees of the guidelines
would be disproportionate to the benefits of this option. The exclusion of investment firms is
expected to create net benefits in the functioning of the internal market and the establishment of
a level playing field internationally, and is thus the preferred option (option 3.2). 49
48
   This approach also addresses concerns expressed by the European banking sector in the recent European
Commission call for evidence on the EU regulatory framework for financial services, and in the EBA’s Banking
Stakeholder Group Report on Proportionality in Bank Regulation (BSG 2015).
49
   For further arguments for a special treatment of investment firms in the EU financial regulatory framework, see also
the EBA’s Report on Investment Firms, available at http://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/983359/EBA-Op-
2015-20+Report+on+investment+firms.pdf.
                                                                                                                    62

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
E. Conclusion
The overall cost impact of these guidelines compared with the baseline scenario is moderate,
while the benefits are high. The implementation of these guidelines will create one-off and
ongoing direct costs for both credit institutions and competent authorities. However, the costs of
the application of these guidelines would be outweighed by the benefits of consistent, efficient
and effective supervisory practices supporting financial stability, safety and soundness of the EU
banking sector and ensuring a level playing field at the international level.
                                                                                                63

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                          64

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
5.2 Feedback on the public consultation
The EBA publicly consulted on the draft proposal that has been finalised in this paper.
The consultation period lasted for three months and ended on 26 October 2016. Of the 17
responses received, 16 were published on the EBA website.
This section of the final report presents a summary of the key points and other comments arising
from the consultation, the analysis and discussion triggered by these comments, and the actions
taken to address them if deemed necessary.
In many cases several industry bodies made similar comments or the same body repeated its
comments in the response to different questions. In such cases, the comments, and EBA analysis,
are included in the section of this analysis where the EBA considers them most pertinent.
Changes to the draft guidelines have been incorporated when relevant as a result of the
responses received during the public consultation.
Summary of key issues and the EBA’s response
The main points raised by respondents with regard to these draft guidelines are the following:
Legal basis and consistency with accounting standards
Several respondents questioned the legal basis for the EBA to issue these guidelines and the
consistency of these guidelines with the existing accounting requirements, in particular the
requirements of IFRS 9.
Scope of application
Some respondents mentioned that the application of the proportionality principle should be
allowed also at individual and sub-consolidated levels, even when the credit institutions are part
of a larger group.
Proportionality
Some respondents believe that the guidelines should develop further the requirements for the
application of the principle of proportionality and provide more guidance on this aspect, but they
believe also that the guidelines are too prescriptive regarding the use of practical expedients (to
allow these to be applied only in the case of smaller and less complex credit institutions). The
majority of the respondents who answered the question on the impact assessment expressed a
preference for the application of the guidelines in a proportionate manner without defining more
specific criteria (option 2.1).
Materiality
                                                                                                 65

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Several respondents noted that immaterial and non-complex portfolios should be explicitly
considered in the context of the proportionality principle, since immaterial portfolios of large
credit institutions may also face implementation issues and therefore also benefit from applying
the proportionality principle. Other respondents consider the materiality principle included in the
guidelines inconsistent with the one included in the IFRS.
Use of practical expedients
Some respondents considered the guidelines too restrictive on the use of practical expedients. In
particular they highlight that practical expedients are restricted to ‘smaller and less complex
credit institutions’, while the general provisions on proportionality extend its application to a
broader scope of credit institutions (including smaller and less complex ones), taking into account
‘all relevant facts and circumstances’. Therefore, they suggest that the proportionality principle
should be applied consistently throughout the guidelines.
Consistency with the BCBS guidance and with IFRS
Many respondents recommended that the guidelines should be less prescriptive and worded
more like the BCBS guidance or IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 on disclosures. In particular, they mentioned
that the use of ‘should’ instead of the less prescriptive language used in the BCBS guidance
creates additional expectations that go beyond the BCBS expectations.
The EBA’s analysis and response to these key issues is detailed in the following table:
                                                                                                 66

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
Summary of responses to the consultation and the EBA’s analysis
                                                                                                                                                       Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                       the proposals
General comments
                                      Several respondents mentioned that the guidelines     As the addressees of any EBA guidelines should             Deletion of the
                                      are overly prescriptive and suggested following a     make every effort to comply with the guidelines (see       definition          of
                                      more principles-based approach. For instance,         Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/201016 50 ),         ‘reasonable       and
                                      several respondents referred to the use of the        guidelines need to be written in a manner that             supportable
                                      word ‘should’ in the EBA guidelines, which may        accommodates this objective; hence the use of              information’        in
                                      create expectations that go beyond the BCBS           specific legal terminology in the guidelines (for          paragraph 15 of the
                                      guidance, and other respondents indicated that        example the use of the word ‘should’). However, it         draft guidelines.
                                      paragraphs 33, 36, 37 and 40 impose strict            should be stressed that these guidelines should be
                                      requirements and could be seen as a checklist (for    read not as a checklist but holistically, as explained
                                      example the use of the word ‘in particular’).         in paragraph 12 in the Background section of the
                                                                                            guidelines. Whenever lists are provided they are not
                                                                                            intended to be all-inclusive.
                                      A few respondents, while recognising the role of      The legal basis for issuing these guidelines is
                                      the EBA in the harmonisation of supervisory rules,    explained in the Background section of the
                                      specified that the accounting standard setters        guidelines (in paragraphs 1 and 2). These own
                                      should determine the rules for financial reporting.   initiative guidelines aim to ensure sound credit risk
                                      In addition, one respondent suggested avoiding        management practices for credit institutions               Amendment           to
                                      duplicating definitions that exist elsewhere. One     associated with the implementation and ongoing             paragraph 13 of the
                                      respondent raised concerns that the guidelines will   application of ECL accounting models. They set out         background        and
                                      force credit institutions to apply IFRS 9 in a way    the supervisory expectations related to sound credit       rationale of the draft
                                      that is not compliant, and another respondent did     risk practices associated with implementing and            guidelines.
                                      not agree with the implementation of the EBA          applying an ECL accounting model. As explained in
50
   Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority),
amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/78/EC, (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12).
                                                                                                                                                                          67

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                   the proposals
                                      guidelines based as closely as possible on the BCBS   paragraph 8 in the Background section of the
                                      guidance. In addition, the same respondent            guidelines, the guidelines emphasise the importance
                                      mentioned that for credit institutions the            of high-quality and consistent application of IFRS 9
                                      guidelines will restrict the choices available in     and could help in promoting consistent
                                      IFRS 9 and that the guidelines should contain a       interpretations and practices, while also addressing
                                      statement clarifying that, should there be any        the call from the European Parliament on the
                                      conflicts between the guidelines and the              resolution for the adoption of IFRS 9 for guidance in
                                      IFRS 9/IFRIC statements related to IFRS 9, the latter the application of IFRS 9 51 . The Commission
                                      should prevail.                                       responded on 29 March 2017 to the European
                                                                                            Parliament resolution acknowledging the work of the
                                                                                            EBA on this area.
                                                                                            Therefore, it is not the objective of these guidelines
                                                                                            to contradict the accounting requirements of IFRS 9,
                                                                                            although they may have the effect of restricting the
                                                                                            flexibility that IFRS 9 allows. In instances when
                                                                                            definitions have been included in the guidelines, that
                                                                                            is to facilitate the application of the guidelines,
                                                                                            without duplicating existing definitions in IFRS 9 or
                                                                                            the relevant regulatory framework as explained in
                                                                                            paragraph 15 of the main text of the guidelines.
                                      One respondent suggested highlighting all areas in    The objective of the EBA guidelines is to be in line
                                      which the EBA guidelines are intended to be           with the BCBS guidance so that compliance with the
                                      different from the BCBS guidance, together with       EBA guidelines would also result in compliance with
                                      relevant explanations.                                the BCBS guidance.
                                                                                            However, some changes were necessary so that the
                                                                                            EBA guidelines include the EU legal terminology and
51
   http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?pubRef=-//EP//TEXT+MOTION+B8-2016-1060+0+DOC+XML+V0//EN
                                                                                                                                                                 68

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
                                                                                        necessary references to EU legal texts. This should
                                                                                        facilitate the exercise of the ‘comply or explain’
                                                                                        mechanism by the addressees of these guidelines.
                                                                                        The main changes which have been introduced in
                                                                                        the text compared with the BCBS guidance are:
                                                                                        • The use of the EBA legal drafting criteria for
                                                                                        guidelines, which, for instance, has led to the
                                                                                        removal of some explanatory text or to the use of
                                                                                        the term ‘should’ because, pursuant to Article 16 of
                                                                                        Regulation      (EU)     No 1093/2010,       competent
                                                                                        authorities and financial institutions must make
                                                                                        every effort to comply with the guidelines.
                                                                                        •The inclusion of the Annex of the Basel guidance,
                                                                                        which is specific to credit institutions applying IFRS 9,
                                                                                        as a section of the document. Because of this
                                                                                        change, some paragraphs have been deleted to
                                                                                        avoid repetitions in the text.
                                                                                        •Some paragraphs reproducing IFRS 9 text have
                                                                                        been replaced by references to specific paragraphs
                                                                                        of IFRS 9.
                                                                                        •Some words have been changed for consistency
                                                                                        across the text.
                                      One respondent mentioned that the EBA should
                                      provide clear references to existing rules and    On the references to existing rules in these
                                      interpretations, and clarify whether any existing guidelines, the EBA believes that the current text
                                      rules, guidance or interpretation are superseded  includes the appropriate references. Paragraph 16 of
                                      with these guidelines or this simply provides     the Background section of the guidelines and
                                                                                                                                                                69

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
                                      additional interpretation.                            paragraph 12 of the main text of the guidelines
                                                                                            elaborate further on the interaction of these
                                                                                            guidelines with existing regulatory requirements.
Responses to questions in Consultation Paper EBA/CP/2016/10
Question 1 (Scope)                    The vast majority of respondents stated that the      The EBA believes that the text of the guidelines is
                                      scope of application of the guidelines is             sufficiently clear on the scope of application of the
                                      appropriate and sufficiently clear. A few             guidelines. Paragraph 11 of the guidelines includes
                                      respondents did not agree with the scope of           the scope of application, which includes credit
                                      application, mentioning the need to clarify:          institutions on an individual, sub-consolidated and
                                          -    the scope of application in the case of a    consolidated basis in accordance with Article 109 of
                                               non-EU subsidiary of an EU bank, as it       Directive 2013/36/EU. Paragraphs 9 and 10 further
                                               should not be subject to the EBA             define the scope of application of these guidelines.
                                               guidelines;
                                          -    whether the scope of application is          Paragraph 7 also mentions that the EBA guidelines
                                               limited to loans, loan commitments and       should be applied to lending exposures, and lending
                                               financial guarantees (as in the BCBS         exposures are defined further in paragraph 15 of the
                                               guidance), or it covers all financial        guidelines, which includes definitions. This is
                                               instruments within the scope of              consistent with the relevant BCBS guidance. The EBA
                                               impairment requirements of IFRS 9;           does not consider that there is a sufficiently strong
                                          -    the approach for debt securities at          case to develop material that would apply to
                                               amortised cost or fair value through Other   instruments beyond the scope of the BCBS guidance,
                                               Comprehensive       Income,      as   these  i.e. debt securities.
                                               exclusions could lead to a non-
                                               homogeneous quality of risk management
                                               practices promoted by the EBA.
Question 2 (Application date)         The vast majority of respondents believed that the    The EBA believes that the application date of the     Amendment        to
                                      date of application of the guidelines is appropriate. guidelines is appropriate and consistent with the     paragraph 16 of the
                                                                                                                                                                   70

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                 EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                                      Among them, a few respondents specified that the       effective date of IFRS 9. However, some changes        draft guidelines.
                                      guidelines should state that application is required   have been introduced to the guidelines to clarify the
                                      from the first financial period beginning on or after  application date.
                                      1 January 2018, as per IFRS 9, rather than from
                                                                                             The application date of the guidelines is the start of
                                      1 January 2018.
                                                                                             the first accounting period beginning on or after
                                                                                             1 January 2018. This is consistent with the effective
                                                                                             application date of IFRS 9. The EBA also understands
                                                                                             that    implementation       efforts  are    ongoing
                                                                                             (development of processes, systems, models and
                                                                                             data) and are expected to be constantly evolving
                                                                                             until the initial application of IFRS 9. Therefore,
                                                                                             credit institutions may decide to consider the
                                                                                             content of this guidelines before the initial
                                                                                             application of IFRS 9.
                                      One respondent preferred that the application of
                                                                                             Regarding the postponement of the application of
                                      the guidelines be postponed to 1 January 2020 in
                                                                                             the guidelines, the EBA believes that it would not
                                      order to enable banks to test and improve their
                                                                                             encourage the application of sound credit risk
                                      own systems during 2018 (best practice is
                                                                                             management practices from the initial application of
                                      expected to emerge after 2018), considering that
                                                                                             IFRS 9 — which would have been earlier than the
                                      the guidelines introduce additional requirements
                                                                                             application of the guidelines, as proposed by the
                                      to IFRS 9, especially in relation to sound credit risk
                                                                                             respondent.
                                      management practices. Alternatively, they
                                      proposed some transitional or grandfathering rules
                                      as explained in Question 3.
                                      One respondent agreed with the proposed
                                                                                             On the comment regarding the different application
                                      implementation date if the guidelines apply only to
                                                                                             date for systemic institutions, please refer to the
                                      systemic banks and not to all credit institutions.
                                                                                             application of the proportionality principle in
                                      The respondent argued that this will lead to an
                                                                                             Question 3 below.
                                      internationally level playing field.
                                                                                                                                                                      71

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                               Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                              EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                               the proposals
                                      One respondent commented on the different
                                      application dates of these guidelines and other
                                                                                          The EBA understands that there is an interaction
                                      EBA regulatory products (such as Guidelines on
                                                                                          between these guidelines and other regulatory
                                      definition of default and RTS on materiality
                                                                                          products. For instance, during the consultation on
                                      thresholds), as there is an interaction between the
                                                                                          the Guidelines on the definition of default there
                                      two, and credit institutions would need to update
                                                                                          were      different  views     on   whether      the
                                      and re-adjust their credit risk management
                                                                                          implementation date should be the same or the EBA
                                      policies, processes, procedures and systems more
                                                                                          guidelines on default should be implemented after
                                      than once before 2021.
                                                                                          the implementation of IFRS 9. In this regard, the
                                                                                          changes in the guidelines on default have to be
                                                                                          implemented at the latest by the end of 2020, hence
                                                                                          sufficient time is granted after the date of
                                                                                          implementation of IFRS 9. However, credit
                                                                                          institutions may implement the changes in a shorter
                                                                                          timeframe. Therefore, if it is deemed appropriate,
                                                                                          credit institutions may align the timeline for
                                                                                          implementation of the abovementioned regulatory
                                                                                          products.
Question 3 (Proportionality)
                                      Overall comments
                                                                                          As mentioned in paragraph 14 in the Background       Amendments         to
                                      Some respondents asked for more extensive
                                                                                          section of the guidelines, all credit institutions   paragraphs 17-19 on
                                      guidance on the application of the concept of
                                                                                          applying IFRS 9 should ensure that they meet the     proportionality and
                                      proportionality and on how credit institutions
                                                                                          objectives of IFRS 9. However, when applying the     materiality       and
                                      should apply it in practice. Other respondents
                                                                                          Standard it is acknowledged that ways of meeting     paragraph 129      on
                                      believed that the guidelines should place more
                                                                                          the objectives of IFRS 9 may differ across credit    the use of practical
                                      weight on proportionality (i.e. consider the
                                                                                          institutions, and that different credit institutions expedients of the
                                      different types of institutions) and that they are
                                                                                          may apply approaches with different levels of        draft guidelines.
                                      too prescriptive regarding the use of practical
                                                                                          sophistication when implementing IFRS 9. For
                                                                                                                                                                  72

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                 EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
                                      expedients.                                            example, different techniques or models may be
                                                                                             used in the measurement of ECL. It is also the case
                                                                                             that increasing the complexity of the methods used
                                      In addition, a few respondents argued that, in         or the amount of data does not always improve the
                                      some areas, the guidelines are written as rule-        measurement of ECL (for instance the addition of
                                      based guidance with strict requirements that are       more scenarios when a representative sample of
                                      difficult to align with the principles of              possible outcomes has been considered).
                                      proportionality and materiality.
                                                                                             Therefore, these guidelines should be applied in a
                                                                                             proportionate manner, considering also the principle
                                                                                             of materiality. Both are mentioned in paragraphs 17-
                                      One respondent mentioned that while the
                                                                                             18 of the main text of the guidelines, which do not
                                      application of the EBA guidelines by credit
                                                                                             rule out the application of the proportionality and
                                      institutions is to be according to the ‘nature, scope
                                                                                             materiality principle for credit institutions which are
                                      and complexity of their activities’, it (i.e. the
                                                                                             less complex or smaller.
                                      respondent) nevertheless sees a need for a much
                                      clearer statement in the body of the guidelines        Therefore, the EBA believes that the requirements in
                                      that indicates that the EBA fully appreciates that     the guidelines related to the proportionality and
                                      differing firms will have significantly different      materiality considerations strike the appropriate
                                      approaches in their application of IFRS 9.             balance in providing, as far as possible, sufficiently
                                                                                             specific guidance to ensure robust and consistent
                                                                                             application of IFRS 9 and at the same time avoiding
                                                                                             the introduction of ‘bright lines’ or a rules-based
                                                                                             approach, which could lead to a mechanical
                                                                                             application of the guidelines.
                                      Proportionality — paragraph 17 of the guidelines
                                           -    Some respondents mentioned that the
                                                                                             Regarding the scope of application of the guidelines
                                                application of the proportionality principle
                                                                                             (application of the proportionality approach on sub-
                                                should also be allowed at the individual
                                                                                             consolidated or individual basis) please refer to
                                                                                                                                                                   73

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
                                              (e.g. subsidiaries or branches) and sub-     Question 1 above. In this regard proportionality
                                              consolidated levels, even when they are      should be applied at each level (individual, sub-
                                              part of a larger group. In this regard, one  consolidated and consolidated basis).
                                              respondent          mentioned           that
                                                                                           The EBA also recognises that the appropriate
                                              proportionality should not only be limited
                                                                                           approach to proportionality needs to consider entity
                                              to less complex banks, as smaller
                                                                                           factors (including — among others — size, business
                                              subsidiaries or branches of large credit
                                                                                           model, complexity, cross-border activity or the
                                              institutions should also benefit from
                                                                                           existing use of the SA or the IRB approach) as well as
                                              applying the proportionality principles.
                                                                                           portfolio factors (including — among others —
                                         -    In addition, one respondent suggested        complexity, materiality and available data).
                                              considering the Global Public Policy
                                                                                           The EBA guidelines do not refer explicitly to ‘less
                                              Committee (GPPC) guidelines when
                                                                                           developed markets’. However, as explained above,
                                              developing further the concept of
                                                                                           different entity and portfolio factors need to be
                                              proportionality.
                                                                                           considered and therefore the EBA understands that
                                         -    One respondent mentioned that, in the        there may be differences in the availability of
                                              case of individual portfolios, materiality,  information between different markets; credit
                                              risk and data availability should be         institutions will need to consider this issue when
                                              considered in applying the principle of      applying the guidelines in a proportionate manner.
                                              proportionality.
                                         -    A few respondents mentioned that ‘less
                                              developed markets’ should also be one of
                                              the criteria for the application of
                                              proportionality.
                                      Materiality — paragraph 18 of the guidelines
                                         -    Some respondents found the materiality
                                                                                           Regarding the definition of the materiality principle
                                              principle included in section 4.1.1
                                                                                           in paragraph 18 of the main text of the guidelines,
                                              inconsistent with the one included in the
                                                                                           the guidelines do not intend to re-address the notion
                                              IFRS. Therefore, they recommended that
                                                                                                                                                                74

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                   the proposals
                                              the materiality principle be reworded in      of materiality included in IAS 1 Presentation of
                                              order to properly reflect the definition      Financial Statements. Instead, similar to the BCBS
                                              provided in the accounting framework.         guidance, the guidelines provide guidance on how
                                              One respondent explained that it should       this notion should be applied within the context of
                                              be clear that the discussion of materiality   the guidelines and do not modify existing accounting
                                              in the proposed guidelines does not           requirements.
                                              override the concept of materiality in the
                                              IFRS and that the materiality thresholds
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments        to
                                              applicable under the IFRS should also be
                                                                                                                                                   paragraphs 17-19
                                              applied to the proposed guidelines.
                                                                                                                                                   and paragraph 129
                                         -    Some respondents noted that non-                                                                     of      the    draft
                                                                                            Please see also the EBA analysis above on
                                              complex and immaterial portfolios should                                                             guidelines.
                                                                                            proportionality, including the need to consider entity
                                              be explicitly considered in the context of
                                                                                            and portfolio factors in the approach to
                                              the proportionality principle, since
                                                                                            proportionality. In this regard, a proportional
                                              immaterial portfolios of large credit
                                                                                            approach in the ECL measurement of non-complex
                                              institutions      may       face      similar
                                                                                            and immaterial portfolios should also be considered.
                                              implementation issues and therefore also
                                              benefit from applying the proportionality
                                              principle.
                                         -    One respondent mentioned that there
                                                                                            The EBA understands that there is a link between the
                                              should be an alignment between the
                                                                                            principles of proportionality and materiality. In this
                                              proportionality and materiality principles,
                                                                                            regard, it also acknowledges that the application of
                                              with the intention that both principles
                                                                                            materiality will depend on the nature, scope and
                                              enable a proper implementation of these
                                                                                            complexity of the activities of the credit institution
                                              guidelines. This means that the materiality
                                                                                            and its portfolios.
                                              concept should also be applied according
                                              to the ‘nature, scope and complexity of
                                              their activities’ of every credit institution
                                              and its portfolios.
                                                                                                                                                                    75

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                 EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
                                      Proportionality and practical expedients
                                          -    A few respondents were concerned that         On the use of practical expedients, the guidelines   In     paragraph 129,
                                               the scope of application of the proposed      should be applied in a proportionate manner in       the reference to
                                               guidelines is wider than the scope of the     accordance with paragraph 17 and 18, which are       smaller and less
                                               BCBS guidelines. This is particularly         relevant throughout the guidelines. The reference to complex         credit
                                               important for practical expedients as the     smaller and less complex credit institutions for the institutions has been
                                               limitations on their use would apply to all   use of practical expedients in paragraph 129 aimed   removed from the
                                               banks in the EU applying IFRS 9 and this      at providing more guidance to credit institutions on draft guidelines.
                                               limitation goes beyond the BCBS               the application of the proportionality approach in
                                               guidance.                                     that context. However, in the light of consultation
                                                                                             responses, the EBA believes that defining further
                                          -    A few respondents mentioned that the
                                                                                             smaller and less complex credit institutions could
                                               guidelines         include          different
                                                                                             add more complexity in the guidelines. Therefore,
                                               proportionality principles in paragraph 17
                                                                                             this reference has been removed from the text.
                                               and      in    paragraph 129       (practical
                                               expedients), which refers only to ‘smaller
                                               and less complex credit institutions’ (i.e.
                                               paragraph 129). As a conclusion, they
                                               consider paragraph 129 too restrictive.
                                          -    A few respondents suggested introducing
                                               more detailed definitions of ‘small’ and
                                               ‘less     complex’     institutions,     one
                                               respondent suggested referring to ‘credit
                                               institutions which are both smaller or less
                                               complex’ and another suggested that,
                                               instead of smaller and less complex
                                               institutions, paragraph 129 should refer to
                                               the complexity of the portfolios.
                                          -    One respondent mentioned that the
                                                                                                                                                                     76

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                                              possibility of resorting to practical         As explained above, the EBA guidelines should be
                                              expedients is of the utmost importance        applied in a proportionate manner which should
                                              and envisaged the introduction of             consider, among other factors, the complexity of the
                                              transitional and grandfathering rules         credit institution. The EBA guidelines do not cover all
                                              according       to    which     institutions, the practical expedients that institutions may use
                                              particularly less complex ones, may rely      under IFRS 9 but refer specifically only to the
                                              more on the use of practical expedients       information set, the low credit risk exemption and
                                              (this would give more time to these           the 30-days-past-due rebuttable presumption.
                                              institutions to develop appropriate
                                              information systems, as well as
                                              appropriate policies, procedures and          The principles of proportionality and materiality as
                                              corporate governance practices on             explained above should also be applied on the initial
                                              forward-looking        provisioning,       in application of the guidelines and in accordance with
                                              compliance with the guidance). In             chapter 7.2. of IFRS 9.
                                              addition, a few respondents mentioned
                                              that the use of practical expedients should
                                              be allowed for exposures that are
                                              originated before the first application of
                                              IFRS 9, if the actual data are not available
                                              and cannot be generated without undue
                                              cost or effort.
                                         -    One respondent mentioned that, for
                                                                                            The reference to bias has been kept in the text, as,
                                              smaller and less complex banks, it would
                                                                                            irrespective of the size or complexity of the bank,
                                              be difficult to assess whether there is bias                                                          Paragraph 19 of the
                                                                                            bias should not be introduced to meet the objectives
                                              when applying practical expedients                                                                    draft guidelines has
                                                                                            of IFRS 9. However, the EBA understands that there
                                              without investing in complex processes.                                                               been amended to
                                                                                            could be different approaches in the ECL
                                              For this reason, these banks should be                                                                avoid the reference
                                                                                            measurement and therefore that the use of the
                                              exempted        from     complying       with                                                         to ‘ideal measures’.
                                                                                            word ‘ideal’ in paragraph 19 of the draft Guidelines
                                              paragraphs 19, 122 and 138 of the draft
                                                                                            may create ambiguity.
                                              guidelines, or provided with more
                                              guidance. One respondent was also
                                                                                                                                                                      77

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                             EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                the proposals
                                              concerned about the reference to ‘ideal’
                                              measures in paragraph 19, as there may
                                              be no common, generally accepted view
                                              on this (a variety of approaches may be
                                              applied).
                                         -    A few respondents consider the approach
                                                                                         As explained in the guidelines, credit institutions
                                              on practical expedients very restrictive,
                                                                                         should make limited use of practical expedients.
                                              since they do not agree with the
                                                                                         However, this is also subject to the principles of
                                              conclusion that limited use needs to be
                                                                                         proportionality and materiality. For instance, the use
                                              made of practical expedients in order to
                                                                                         of the 30-days-past-due rebuttable presumption
                                              achieve      robust     and     consistent
                                                                                         would need to be assessed against the criteria to
                                              implementation of IFRS 9.
                                                                                         apply a proportionate approach considering the
                                         -    A few respondents mentioned that a         specificities of the exposure (and the portfolio in
                                              reasonable use of the 30-days-past-due     which the exposure may be grouped) and the credit
                                              rebuttable presumption would not be        institutions as included in the main text of the
                                              inconsistent     with    a    high-quality guidelines.
                                              implementation and should be subject to
                                                                                         The EBA also recalls that all credit institutions
                                              the principles of proportionality and
                                                                                         applying IFRS 9 should ensure that they meet the
                                              materiality with regard to the size and
                                                                                         objectives of IFRS 9 when applying the standard, so
                                              inherent risks of such exposures. For
                                                                                         as to estimate expected credit losses which reflect
                                              example, one respondent referred to
                                                                                         an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is
                                              some retail portfolios where the 30-days-
                                                                                         determined by evaluating a range of possible
                                              past-due indicator would better reflect
                                                                                         outcomes (IFRS 9, paragraph 5.5.17).
                                              consumer       behaviour    and    where
                                              macroeconomic factors and forward-         Therefore, the use of practical expedients is
                                              looking information would not necessarily  expected to be limited, as practical expedients have
                                              be relevant.                               the potential to introduce bias in ECL measurement.
                                                                                                                                                              78

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                 Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                              EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                 the proposals
Question 4 (Elements of the           The following paragraphs include in detail the main
EBA guidelines)                       paragraphs of the guidelines that were mentioned
                                      by respondents in their responses to the public
                                      consultation and with which they disagree or that
                                      would require additional clarifications:
                                          -    Paragraph 23 of the draft guidelines       Paragraph 23 of the guidelines is consistent with the
                                               requires banks to provide clearly          requirements in BCBS guidance and it is explained
                                               documented and robust justification        that the cases when information relevant to the
                                               where, in exceptional circumstances,       assessment and measurement of credit risk is not
                                               information relevant to the assessment of  reasonable and supportable would be exceptional. It
                                               credit risk is not deemed reasonable and   requires documentation in circumstances in which
                                               supportable. One respondent indicated      information is relevant to the assessment and
                                               that this requirement overrides IFRS 9 and measurement of credit risk but which is not
                                               should be deleted. A few other             reasonable and supportable, so the focus is likely to
                                               respondents believe that this wording or   be on the bounds of what is reasonable and
                                               its interpretation could be read as        supportable. In addition, with regard to the
                                               requiring justification for not including  comment on the justification for not including every
                                               every possible future scenario, and        possible scenario, paragraph 39 of the guidelines
                                               therefore that the wording needs also to   explicitly mentions that a credit institution does not
                                               be amended to clarify that this is not the need to identify or model every possible scenario
                                               case. One respondent suggested that this   through scenario simulations but should consider all
                                               paragraph could rather ask credit          reasonable and supportable information. Therefore,
                                               institutions to justify the scenarios that the EBA believes that, for these exceptional cases,
                                               have been retained.                        the guidelines are sufficiently balanced by requiring
                                               In addition, a few respondents considered  justification without imposing significant additional
                                               that paragraph 38 of the draft guidelines  burden. Similarly, paragraph 38 is consistent with
                                               (regarding the consideration of different  the BCBS guidance and it requires that credit
                                               potential scenarios) will be an additional institutions develop and document their processes
                                               requirement beyond IFRS 9 and should be    to generate relevant scenarios in line with sound
                                               subject to cost-benefit considerations,    credit risk methodologies. The EBA believes that the
                                                                                                                                                               79

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                   the proposals
                                              less detailed and more principle based.      guidelines strike the right balance between being
                                              This would be in line and consistent with    prescriptive and allowing a certain degree of
                                              the credit institution’s risk management     flexibility to credit institutions to avoid undue cost
                                              practice.                                    and burden but at the same time ensure that they
                                                                                           are meeting the objectives of IFRS 9.
                                         -    One respondent mentioned that letter e)
                                              of paragraph 36 of the draft guidelines      Paragraph 36(e) has been moved in the EBA
                                              was additional to the BCBS guidance.         guidelines from paragraph 35(i) of the BCBS
                                                                                           guidance for ease of understanding.
                                         -    Paragraph 41 of the draft guidelines refers
                                              to the accounting polices related to         According to paragraph 41, credit institutions should
                                              renegotiations/modifications and the         consider the relevant supervisory disclosure
                                              treatment of purchased or originated         requirements for the probation period when
                                              credit-impaired lending exposures. A few     preparing their financial statements to the extent
                                              respondents proposed to exclude the          relevant.
                                              ‘minimum two year’ probation period
                                              included in the ITS on Non-performing
                                              loans and forbearance in order to
                                              promote institution-specific internal credit
                                              risk assessment.
                                         -    Principle 5 (ECL model validation): one
                                              respondent mentioned that this section       Paragraphs 64 and 67 aim to provide the context
                                              covers model development requirements        (introduction) for the requirements under principle 5
                                              which should not be listed as validation     on model validation. This principle and the
                                              requirements, as it is potentially confusing paragraphs below aim to provide guidance on how a
                                              and      misleading.    One      respondent  credit institution should establish robust policies and
                                              disagreed with the detailed requirements     procedures to validate models used in the ECL
                                              in paragraphs 64-67 on model validation.     measurement, as such models will play a key role in
                                                                                                                                                                 80

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                 Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                              EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                 the proposals
                                              One respondent mentioned that the           the ECL measurement. This is consistent with BCBS
                                              guidelines should make it more explicit     guidance and the EBA considers this necessary for
                                              that certain IRB-compliant approaches can   ease of understanding of the guidelines. Therefore,
                                              be left unchanged to comply with the EBA    the EBA believes that these requirements do not
                                              guidelines (including validation). A few    impose unnecessary restrictions on credit
                                              respondents recommended clarifying that     institutions, as they are consistent with the relevant
                                              the independence of model validation        existing requirements for model validation in the
                                              from model development can also be          regulatory framework and the BCBS guidance.
                                              achieved      if  the    validation    and
                                                                                          As mentioned in the EBA Report on the first impact
                                              development of the model in question is
                                                                                          assessment of IFRS 9 52, the EBA acknowledges that
                                              performed in the same organisational unit
                                              by different persons, and if the validation the possible synergies and also the impact of IFRS 9
                                                                                          on the IRB regulatory capital models should be
                                              results are approved by a committee that
                                              ensures independent decisions on the        considered. Banks can benefit from alignment of
                                              conclusions to be drawn from the            their prudential and accounting models, if the
                                              validation results, such as the need for    prudential models are fit for IFRS 9 purposes with
                                              new      model     development      or    a appropriate modification to meet IFRS 9
                                              recalibration.                              requirements. This will allow the use of
                                                                                          infrastructure already developed by the bank (such
                                                                                          as methodologies, data and models) and allow for
                                                                                          greater consistency within a bank (for example in
                                                                                          terms of the governance arrangements used).
                                                                                          On the independence of model development and
                                                                                          validation (paragraph 67 of the guidelines), the EBA
                                                                                          believes that the current text of the guidelines is
                                                                                          sufficiently clear and consistent with the relevant
                                                                                          requirements on the independence of model
                                                                                          development and model validation included in the
                                                                                          CRR; furthermore, it does not limit a credit
52
   http://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/1360107/EBA+Report+on+impact+assessment+of+IFRS9
                                                                                                                                                               81

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                 Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                              EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                 the proposals
                                                                                          institution in meeting this requirement by various
                                                                                          possible means.
                                         -    Principle 8    (Disclosures):     A     few
                                              respondents mentioned that principle 8      On disclosures, the guidelines are in line with BCBS
                                              (Disclosures) (and paragraphs 81 and 83)    guidance while avoiding the introduction of
                                              could add significant burden to the         additional requirements, which are already seen as
                                              already existing requirements under         too prescriptive by other respondents. The EBA
                                              IFRS 7 for credit institutions, and that    believes that the current text strikes the appropriate
                                              there is a need for specific reference to   balance between providing guidance on disclosures
                                              IFRS 7, where the guidelines refer to       and at the same time ensuring consistency with
                                              them. Another respondent suggested that     BCBS guidance. Regarding the consistency with the
                                              disclosure requirements be left to          disclosure requirements under IFRS 7, the EBA
                                              accounting and supervisory frameworks       believes that these guidelines are consistent with
                                              and that, if disclosures in addition to     IFRS and that a high-quality implementation of
                                              those required by IFRS 7 are introduced,    IFRS 9 should enable credit institutions to provide
                                              the reason for that should be explained.    high-quality disclosures.
                                              One respondent mentioned that it would
                                              be better if the guidelines included only
                                              high-level disclosure principles and a
                                              request to comply with all relevant
                                              accounting      rules    and     regulatory
                                              requirements, or a clear statement that
                                              they do not request disclosure beyond the
                                              requirements in the applicable accounting
                                              and regulatory rules. However, another
                                              respondent suggested that the guidelines
                                              should      ensure      industry-consistent
                                              disclosures on asset quality in each of the
                                                                                                                                                               82

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                                              stages of IFRS 9 ECL to aid comparisons.
                                         -    Paragraph 86: one respondent mentioned
                                              that the guidelines should avoid
                                                                                           Paragraph 86 of the guidelines is sufficiently clear in
                                              suggesting whether or not ECL allowances
                                                                                           that it mentions an example when ECL may be nil,
                                              will be nil, and another that the nil
                                                                                           without providing an exhaustive list. Other cases
                                              allowance should occur not only in cases
                                                                                           may also exist.
                                              of fully collateralised loans but also for
                                              other cases of credit risk mitigation, in
                                              particular for the case of guarantees.
                                         -    Paragraph 107:        one       respondent
                                                                                           Paragraph 107 of the guidelines includes a non-
                                              mentioned that the guidelines should not
                                                                                           exhaustive list of indicators in assessing a significant
                                              prescribe a methodology which may be
                                                                                           increase in credit risk, having regard to the
                                              interpreted as requiring credit institutions
                                                                                           proportional application of these guidelines. Risk-
                                              to give greater prominence and weighting
                                                                                           adjusted pricing is mentioned as an indicator of
                                              to specific indicators when assessing
                                                                                           significant increase of credit risk but is not mandated
                                              significant increase in credit risk, rather
                                                                                           such that risk-adjusted pricing should be used in all
                                              than considering all relevant information.
                                                                                           occasions mechanically as the only indicator of
                                              This is not consistent with IFRS 9 B5.5.15.
                                                                                           significant increase of credit risk. In addition,
                                              The factors listed in this paragraph of the
                                                                                           paragraph 107(a) does not refer to all factors that
                                              guidelines should not lead to an
                                                                                           may have an impact on the pricing of the loan but
                                              automatic move to lifetime expected loss,
                                                                                           specifically refers to the element of the price of the
                                              in part because they might act as false
                                                                                           lending exposure that reflects the credit risk of the
                                              indicators to banks. In addition, a few
                                                                                           exposure.
                                              respondents expressed concerns about
                                              the expectation that banks should
                                              demonstrate risk-adjusted pricing through
                                              all business segments and for all loans, in
                                                                                                                                                                  83

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                             EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
                                              order to use this as a factor for
                                              determining significant increase in credit
                                              risk (paragraph 107(a)), while one
                                              respondent mentioned that loan pricing
                                              may be impacted by factors not related to
                                              the borrower's credit risk (e.g. a credit
                                              institution’s cost of funding).
                                         -    Paragraph 109: a few respondents           Regarding the use of the absolute change in the PD
                                              disagreed with mentioning the absolute     when assessing significant increase of credit risk, the  Amendments to
                                              measure of the change in the PD when       EBA acknowledges that IFRS 9 is a relative model         paragraph 109 of
                                              used for the assessment of the significant (increase in the risk of default occurring since initial the draft guidelines.
                                              increase of credit risk since initial      recognition). However, when assessing whether or
                                              recognition, as this could result in non-  not a significant increase in credit risk has occurred,
                                              compliance with IFRS 9 requirements.       relevant facts and circumstances should be taken
                                                                                         into account, including the absolute change in PD.
                                                                                         The EBA believes that the guidelines are sufficiently
                                                                                         clear in this regard and consistent with BCBS
                                                                                         guidance and would not prevent a credit institution
                                                                                         from meeting the impairment requirements of
                                                                                         IFRS 9.
                                         -    Paragraph 113: one respondent was          Paragraph 113 refers to the case of intensifying the
                                              concerned that this paragraph may be       monitoring of exposures as an example of an
                                              interpreted as prescribing that the more   indicator of significant increase of credit risk and
                                              intensive monitoring of a borrower would   therefore it should not be considered automatically
                                              be an automatic indicator of significant   as a trigger for significant increase of credit risk.
                                              increase of credit risk, on its own and
                                              regardless of other indicators.
                                         -    Paragraph 116:          one     respondent
                                              mentioned that the meaning of the word     Paragraph 116 refers to the assessment of significant
                                                                                                                                                                     84

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                                              ‘group’ was not clear in this paragraph      increase in credit risk in the case of groups of lending Amendments
                                              (even though this paragraph includes         exposures on a collective basis. Similar to IFRS 9       paragraphs 54, 116
                                              reference to IFRS 9 B5.5.1). One             requirements and BCBS guidance, the identification       of the draft
                                              respondent        indicated     that     the of significant increase of credit risk in one exposure   guidelines.
                                              downgrading of a single counterparty         is not an automatic trigger of significant increase of
                                              within a group with shared credit risk       credit risk for a group of exposures of which it is a
                                              characteristics should not automatically     part. For the avoidance of any misunderstanding the
                                              lead to transfer of the entire group to      text in this paragraph has been amended.
                                              lifetime ECL.
                                         -    Paragraph 120: a few respondents
                                                                                           The EBA acknowledges that the comparison of past
                                              mentioned that it should be stated in the
                                                                                           lifetime PD estimates should consider the factors        Amendments to
                                              guidelines that a comparison of past
                                                                                           explained in IFRS 9 B5.5.11. However, the purpose of     paragraph 109 of
                                              lifetime PD estimates at initial recognition
                                                                                           paragraph 120 is to explain the difference between       the draft guidelines.
                                              with the lifetime PDs estimated on the
                                                                                           the general principle of IFRS 9 (relative model) and
                                              reporting date can make sense only if the
                                                                                           the example where an institution has set a maximum
                                              comparison is made for congruent periods
                                                                                           level of credit risk. Having said that, the guidelines
                                              of time (as implied in IFRS 9 B5.5.11).
                                                                                           do not aim to prescribe in further detail the
                                                                                           methodology for this aspect of assessing a significant
                                                                                           increase of credit risk.
                                         -    Paragraph 124: a few respondents
                                              indicated that the sentence ‘credit          Regarding paragraph 124, as the focus of this
                                              institutions     should      ensure     that paragraph (renegotiations/modifications that could
                                              modifications or renegotiations do not       lead to obscuring increase of credit risk) is different
                                              obscure increases in credit risk …’ relates  from the one in IFRS 9 paragraph B5.5.5 (grouping of
                                              to IFRS 9 preventing preparers from          exposures with shared credit risk characteristics), a
                                              hiding      credit     deteriorations     by direct reference to IFRS 9 seems less relevant.
                                              modifications or renegotiations of the
                                              contractual terms and conditions. This
                                                                                                                                                                       85

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                      Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                  EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                      the proposals
                                                sentence should be appropriately
                                                referenced directly from IFRS 9.
                                           -    One       respondent        noted        that
                                                                                              On the use of justifications for the use of practical
                                                paragraph 130 imposes an additional
                                                                                              expedients, the EBA believes that the guidelines are
                                                burden of proof on the bank.
                                                                                              not unduly prescriptive on this aspect. Given that
                                                                                              advancing credit is a core business of credit
                                                                                              institutions, it is appropriate that banks should
                                                                                              document justifications for the use of practical
                                                                                              expedients.
                                           -    Paragraph 133: a few respondents              On the use of the low credit risk exemption, the EBA
                                                mentioned that the use of the low credit      guidelines aim to enhance timely assessment and
                                                risk exemption was justified and that it      tracking of significant increase of credit risk,
                                                was unclear how credit institutions can       including also cases of exposures with low credit risk.
                                                demonstrate that the low credit risk          The EBA guidelines aim to ensure that the credit risk
                                                exemption was not used for the purpose        of these exposures is monitored adequately and that
                                                of omitting timely assessment and             any increases in the ECL are recognised on a timely
                                                tracking of credit risk, and that the risk of basis. Therefore, sound credit risk management
                                                the relevant loan was ‘sufficiently low’.     should also be applied in the cases of low credit risk
                                                                                              exposures, and this should allow a credit institution
                                                                                              to demonstrate the appropriateness of the use of
                                                                                              this exemption.
Question 5 (Impact                    A few respondents expressed preference for              Please refer to Question 3 (proportionality             Amendment          in
assessment)                           approach 2.1, ‘Application of the guidelines in a       approach), where it is explained that the guidelines    impact assessment
                                      proportionate manner without defining specific          have been amended to remove the reference to            section (options 2.2,
                                      criteria’. A few respondents mentioned that the         smaller and less complex credit institutions. The EBA   2.3 and preferred
                                      application of the proportionality approach and         acknowledges that the proposed reference in the         option) of the draft
                                                                                                                                                                        86

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                                                                                                                      Amendments to
Comments                       Summary of responses received                                  EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                      the proposals
                                      introduction of specific exclusions or inclusions       proportionality approach would create additional        guidelines.
                                      (‘smaller/less     complex’      or     ‘systematically costs and complexity and therefore the impact
                                      important credit institutions’) would lead to           assessment has been amended accordingly.
                                      reduced flexibility.
                                      One respondent disagreed with the baseline
                                                                                              Regarding the comments on the level playing field,
                                      assertion regarding the existence of an unlevel-
                                                                                              the EBA acknowledges that the BCBS guidance is
                                      playing field across credit institutions at an
                                                                                              more relevant to internationally active banks and
                                      international level, to the extent that other
                                                                                              that IFRS and US GAAP requirements on ECL are not
                                      jurisdictions across the world apply the BCBS
                                                                                              fully converged. However, as in the BCBS guidance,
                                      guidance only to internationally active banks. In
                                                                                              sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4 apply to all credit
                                      addition, one respondent disagreed with the
                                                                                              institutions applying an expected credit loss
                                      concluding assertion that the guidelines would
                                                                                              accounting framework, while section 4.3 is relevant
                                      ensure a level playing field at international level,
                                                                                              to credit institutions applying IFRS 9. Therefore,
                                      since convergence with US GAAP has not been
                                                                                              these guidelines should provide to some extent a
                                      achieved.
                                                                                              level playing field across those credit institutions
                                                                                              applying an expected credit loss accounting
                                                                                              framework (such as IFRS or US GAAP) and also across
                                                                                              jurisdictions that apply either the EBA guidelines or
                                                                                              the BCBS guidance.
                                      One respondent mentioned that, while the
                                      benefits of the proposed guidelines are particularly
                                                                                              Regarding the smaller credit institutions, please refer
                                      clear for large credit institutions, for smaller credit
                                                                                              to the comments in Question 3 above on the
                                      institutions               or               immaterial
                                                                                              application of proportionality and materiality. The
                                      subsidiaries/branches/portfolios it would be
                                                                                              cost-benefit assessment is included under D2,
                                      helpful to have further clarification of how the
                                                                                              Proportionality approach of the impact assessment.
                                      implementation benefits outweigh the costs.
Question 6 (Other comments)           Comments have been included under the questions above on the basis of their relevance.
                                                                                                                                                                    87

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS’ CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND
ACCOUNTING FOR EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES
                                                          88

