GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
 EBA/GL/2018/02
 19 July 2018
Guidelines
on the management of interest rate risk
arising from non-trading book activities
                                                   1

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
Abbreviations
 ALCO          asset and liability management committee
 ALM           asset and liability management
 BCBS          Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
 BSG           Banking Stakeholder Group
 CET1          Common Equity Tier 1
 CSRBB         credit spread risk from non-trading book activities
 CRD           Capital Requirements Directive (Directive 2013/36/EU)
 CRR           Capital Requirements Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 575/2013)
 EBA           European Banking Authority
 EaR           earnings at risk
 EV            economic value
 EVaR          economic value at risk
 EVE           economic value of equity
 FVOCI         fair value through other comprehensive income
 ICAAP         Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
 IFRS 9        International Financial Reporting Standard 9 – Financial instruments
 IMS           internal measurement system
 IR            interest rate
 IRRBB         interest rate risk arising from the banking book (referred to in CRD as interest rate risk arising
               from non-trading book activities)
 IT            information technology
 MIS           management information system
 NII           net interest income
 NMD           non-maturity deposit
 NPE           non-performing exposure
 P&L           profit and loss
 QIS           quantitative impact study
 SREP          supervisory review and evaluation process
                                                                                                                 2

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
1. Compliance and reporting
obligations
Status of these guidelines
1. This document contains guidelines issued pursuant to Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
     No 1093/20101. In accordance with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent
     authorities and financial institutions must make every effort to comply with the guidelines.
2. Guidelines set the EBA view of appropriate supervisory practices within the European System
     of Financial Supervision or of how Union law should be applied in a particular area. Competent
     authorities as defined in Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 to whom guidelines apply
     should comply by incorporating them into their practices as appropriate (e.g. by amending their
     legal framework or their supervisory processes), including where guidelines are directed
     primarily at institutions.
Reporting requirements
3. According to Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent authorities must notify
     the EBA whether they comply or intend to comply with these guidelines, or otherwise with
     reasons for non-compliance, by (dd.mm.yyyy). In the absence of any notification by this
     deadline, competent authorities will be considered by the EBA to be non-compliant.
     Notifications should be sent by submitting the form available on the EBA website to
     compliance@eba.europa.eu with the reference ‘EBA/GL/2018/xx’. Notifications should be
     submitted by persons with appropriate authority to report compliance on behalf of their
     competent authorities. Any change in the status of compliance must also be reported to the
     EBA.
4. Notifications will be published on the EBA website, in line with Article 16(3).
1 Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing
Commission Decision 2009/78/EC, (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p.12).
                                                                                                              3

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
2. Subject matter, scope and definitions
Subject matter and scope of application
5. These guidelines specify:
               (a) the systems to be implemented by institutions for the identification, evaluation
                    and management of the interest rate risk arising from the non-trading book
                    activities, also referred to as interest rate risk arising from the banking book,
                    (IRRBB) referred to in Article 84 of Directive 2013/36/EU;
               (b) institutions’ internal governance arrangements in relation to the management of
                    IRRBB;
               (c) sudden and unexpected changes in the interest rate in accordance with
                    Article 98(5) of Directive 2013/36/EU for the purposes of the review and evaluation
                    performed by competent authorities;
               (d) general expectations for the identification and management of credit spread risk
                    in the non-trading book (CSRBB).
Addressees
6. These guidelines are addressed to competent authorities referred to in point (i) of Article 4(2)
      of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, and to financial institutions referred to in Article 4(1) of that
      regulation which are also institutions in accordance with point 3 of Article 4(1) of Regulation
      (EU) No 575/2013.
Definitions
7. Unless otherwise specified, terms used and defined in Directive 2013/36/EU2 and in Regulation
      (EU) No 575/20133 have the same meaning in the guidelines. In addition, for the purposes of
      these guidelines, the following definitions apply:
  Interest rate risk arising from non-trading                   The current or prospective risk to both the
  book activities                                               earnings and the economic value of an
                                                                institution arising from adverse movements in
                                                                interest rates that affect interest rate sensitive
2 Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit
institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC
and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (1) - OJ L 176, 27.6.2013.
3  Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential
requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 – OJ L 176,
27.6.2013.
                                                                                                                      4

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
                                                   instruments, including gap risk, basis risk and
                                                   option risk.
 Interest rate sensitive instruments               Assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet items in
                                                   the non-trading book, excluding assets
                                                   deducted from CET1 capital, e.g. real estate or
                                                   intangible assets or equity exposures in the
                                                   non-trading book.
 Gap risk                                          Risk resulting from the term structure of
                                                   interest rate sensitive instruments that arises
                                                   from differences in the timing of their rate
                                                   changes, covering changes to the term
                                                   structure of interest rates occurring
                                                   consistently across the yield curve (parallel
                                                   risk) or differentially by period (non-parallel
                                                   risk).
 Basis risk                                        Risk arising from the impact of relative changes
                                                   in interest rates on interest rate sensitive
                                                   instruments that have similar tenors but are
                                                   priced using different interest rate indices.
                                                   Basis risk arises from the imperfect correlation
                                                   in the adjustment of the rates earned and paid
                                                   on different interest rate sensitive instruments
                                                   with otherwise similar rate change
                                                   characteristics.
 Option risk                                       Risk arising from options (embedded and
                                                   explicit), where the institution or its customer
                                                   can alter the level and timing of their cash
                                                   flows, namely the risk arising from interest rate
                                                   sensitive instruments where the holder will
                                                   almost certainly exercise the option if it is in
                                                   their financial interest to do so (embedded or
                                                   explicit automatic options) and the risk arising
                                                   from flexibility embedded implicitly or within
                                                   the terms of interest rate sensitive
                                                   instruments, such that changes in interest rates
                                                   may affect a change in the behaviour of the
                                                   client (embedded behavioural option risk).
 Credit spread risk from non-trading book          The risk driven by changes in the market
 activities (CSRBB)                                perception about the price of credit risk,
                                                   liquidity premium and potentially other
                                                   components of credit-risky instruments
                                                   inducing fluctuations in the price of credit risk,
                                                   liquidity premium and other potential
                                                   components, which is not explained by IRRBB
                                                   or by expected credit/(jump-to-)default risk.
 Earnings measures                                 Measures of changes in expected future
                                                   profitability within a given time horizon
                                                   resulting from interest rate movements.
                                                                                                     5

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
 Economic value (EV) measures                      Measures of changes in the net present value
                                                   of the interest rate sensitive instruments over
                                                   their remaining life resulting from interest rate
                                                   movements. EV measures reflect changes in
                                                   value over the remaining life of the interest
                                                   rate sensitive instruments, i.e. until all
                                                   positions have run off.
 Economic value of equity (EVE) measures           A specific form of EV measure where equity is
                                                   excluded from the cash flows.
 Conditional cash flow modelling                   Cash flow modelling under the assumption that
                                                   the timing and amount of cash flows is
                                                   dependent on the specific interest rate
                                                   scenario.
 Unconditional cash flow modelling                 Cash flow modelling under the assumption that
                                                   the timing and amount of cash flows is
                                                   independent of the specific interest rate
                                                   scenario.
 Run-off balance sheet                             A balance sheet where existing non-trading
                                                   book positions amortise and are not replaced
                                                   by any new business.
 Dynamic balance sheet                             A balance sheet incorporating future business
                                                   expectations, adjusted for the relevant
                                                   scenario in a consistent manner.
 Constant balance sheet                            A balance sheet including off-balance-sheet
                                                   items in which the total size and composition
                                                   are maintained by replacing maturing or
                                                   repricing cash flows with new cash flows that
                                                   have identical features with regard to the
                                                   amount, repricing period and spread
                                                   components.
                                                                                                    6

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
3. Implementation
Date of application
8. Competent authorities should ensure that institutions apply these guidelines from
     30 June 2019 and reflect the guidelines in the 2019 ICAAP cycle, i.e. ICAAP reports presented in
     2020, based on end-year 2019 data, should take these guidelines into account.
Transitional provisions
9. These specific provisions of the guidelines are subject to the following transitional
     arrangements:
     (a) For institutions that fall under SREP categories 3 and 4 as set out in the EBA Guidelines on
           the revised common procedures and methodologies for the supervisory review and
           evaluation process and supervisory stress testing (SREP Guidelines) 4 , paragraph 18 will
           apply as from 31 December 2019 [6 months after the application date of the guidelines].
     (b) For SREP category 3 and 4 institutions, paragraph 114 will apply as from 31 December 2019
           [6 months after the application date of the guidelines].
Repeal
10. The following guidelines are repealed with effect from 30 June 2019: Guidelines on the
     management of interest rate risk arising from non-trading activities (EBA/GL/2015/08)5.
4   EBA/GL/2014/13. Available online: http://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/supervisory-review-and-
evaluation-srep-and-pillar-2/guidelines-for-common-procedures-and-methodologies-for-the-supervisory-review-and-
evaluation-process-srep-
5 Available online: http://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/supervisory-review-and-evaluation-srep-and-pillar-
2/guidelines-on-technical-aspects-of-the-management-of-interest-rate-risk-arising-from-non-trading-activities.
                                                                                                                   7

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
4. Guidelines on the management of
interest rate risk arising from non-
trading book activities
4.1 General provisions
11.Institutions should treat IRRBB as an important risk and always assess it explicitly and
    comprehensively in their risk management processes and internal capital assessment processes.
    A different approach should be fully documented and justified in the course of the supervisory
    dialogue.
12.Institutions should identify their IRRBB exposures and ensure that IRRBB is adequately
    measured, monitored and controlled.
13.Institutions should manage and mitigate risks arising from their IRRBB exposures that affect both
    their earnings and economic value.
14.When calculating the impact of interest rate movements in the earnings perspective, institutions
    should consider not only the effects on interest income and expenses, but also the effects of the
    market value changes of instruments — depending on accounting treatment — either shown in
    the profit and loss account or directly in equity (e.g. via other comprehensive income).
    Institutions should take into account the increase or reduction in earnings and capital over short-
    and medium-term horizons resulting from interest rate movements.
15.The change in earnings should be the difference between expected earnings under a base
    scenario and expected earnings under an alternative, more adverse shock or stress scenario
    from a going-concern perspective.
16.Institutions should consider non-performing exposures 6 (net of provisions) as interest rate
    sensitive instruments reflecting expected cash flows and their timing.
17.Institutions should consider interest rate derivatives, as well as off-balance-sheet items such as
    interest rate sensitive loan commitments, as interest rate sensitive instruments.
18.Institutions should monitor and assess their CSRBB-affected exposures, by reference to the asset
    side of the non-trading book, where CSRBB is relevant for the risk profile of the institution.
19.When implementing the guidelines, institutions should identify their existing and prospective
    exposure to IRRBB in a proportionate manner, depending on the level, complexity and riskiness
    of the non-trading book positions they face, or an increasing risk profile taking into account their
6 Non-performing exposures as defined in Annex V of Regulation (EU) 680/2014.
                                                                                                      8

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    business model, their strategies and the business environment they operate in or intend to
    operate in.
20.Based upon the assessment of their existing and prospective exposure to IRRBB, institutions
    should consider elements and expectations stipulated in this section and in the sections on
    capital identification, calculation and allocation (section 4.2.), governance (section 4.3.) and
    measurement (section 4.4.) and implement them in a way that is commensurate with existing
    and prospective exposure to IRRBB.
21.In addition to the existing and prospective exposure to IRRBB, when implementing the
    guidelines, institutions should also consider their general level of sophistication and internal
    approaches to risk management to make sure that their approaches, processes and systems for
    the management of IRRBB are coherent with their general approach to risk management and
    their specific approaches, processes and systems implemented for the purpose of the
    management of other risks.
4.2 Capital identification, calculation and allocation
22.When evaluating the amounts, types and distributions of internal capital pursuant to Article 73
    of Directive 2013/36/EU, institutions should base the contribution of IRRBB to the overall
    internal capital assessment on the institution’s internal measurement systems outputs, taking
    account of key assumptions and risk limits. The overall level of capital should be commensurate
    with both the institution’s actual measured level of risk (including for IRRBB) and its risk
    appetite, and be duly documented in its report on the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
    Process (ICAAP report).
23.Institutions should demonstrate that their internal capital is commensurate with the level of
    IRRBB, taking into account the impact on internal capital of potential changes in the institution’s
    economic value and future earnings resulting from changes in interest rates. Institutions are not
    expected to double-count their internal capital for EV and earning measures.
24.In their ICAAP analysis of the amount of internal capital required for IRRBB, institutions should
    consider:
     (a) internal capital held for risks to economic value that could arise from adverse movements
          in interest rates; and
     (b) internal capital needs arising from the impact of rate changes on future earnings capacity,
          and the resultant implications for internal capital buffer levels.
25.Institutions should not only rely on the supervisory assessments of capital adequacy for IRRBB
    or on the outcome of the supervisory outlier test (see section 4.5.), but should develop and use
    their own methodologies for capital allocation, based on their risk appetite, level of risk and risk
    management policies. In determining the appropriate level of capital, institutions should
    consider both the amount and the quality of capital needed.
                                                                                                       9

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
26.Capital adequacy assessments for IRRBB should take into account the following:
     (a) the size and tenor of internal limits on IRRBB exposures, and whether or not these limits
          are reached at the point of capital calculation;
     (b) the expected cost of hedging open positions that are intended to take advantage of internal
          expectations of the future level of interest rates;
     (c) the sensitivity of the internal measures of IRRBB to key or imperfect modelling
          assumptions;
     (d) the impact of shock and stress scenarios on positions priced with different interest rate
          indices (basis risk);
     (e) the impact on economic value and earnings (including effects on the fair value through
          other comprehensive income (FVOCI) portfolio) of mismatched positions in different
          currencies;
     (f) the impact of embedded losses and embedded gains;
     (g) the distribution of capital relative to risks across legal entities included in the group’s
          prudential perimeter of consolidation, in addition to the adequacy of overall capital on a
          consolidated basis;
     (h) the drivers of the underlying risk; and
     (i) the circumstances under which the risk may materialise.
27.The outcomes of the capital adequacy for IRRBB should be considered in an institution’s ICAAP
    and flow through to the assessments of capital associated with business lines.
28.To calibrate the amount of internal capital to be held for IRRBB, institutions should use
    measurement systems and a range of interest rate shock and stress scenarios, which are
    adapted to the risk profile of the institution in order to quantify the potential scale of any IRRBB
    effects under adverse conditions.
29.Institutions that operate economic capital models should ensure that the internal capital
    allocation for IRRBB is properly factored into the overall economic capital allocation and that
    any assumptions on diversification are documented and their reliability as well as stability is
    verified using historical data appropriate for the individual institution and the markets in which
    it operates. Economic capital costs may be allocated back to the business units and products to
    ensure that the full costs of the underlying business units or products are properly understood
    by those responsible for managing them.
30.In considering whether or not an allocation of internal capital should be made in respect of
    IRRBB to earnings, institutions should take into account the following:
                                                                                                      10

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
      (a) The relative importance of net interest income to total net income, and therefore the
           impact of significant variations in net interest income from year to year;
      (b) The actual levels of net interest income achievable under different scenarios (i.e. the extent
           to which margins are wide enough to absorb volatility arising from interest rate positions
           and changes in the cost of liabilities);
      (c) The potential for actual losses to be incurred under stressed conditions, or as a result of
           secular changes in the market environment, e.g. where it might become necessary to
           liquidate positions that are intended as a long-term investment to stabilise earnings;
      (d) The relative importance of interest rate sensitive instruments (including interest rate
           derivatives) in the non-trading book, with potential effects shown either in the profit and
           loss account or directly in equity (e.g. via other comprehensive income); and
      (e) The fluctuation of net interest income, the strength and stability of the earnings stream
           and the level of income needed to generate and maintain normal business operations.
           Institutions with a high level of IRRBB that could, under a plausible range of market
           scenarios, result in losses, in curtailing normal dividend distribution, or in a decrease in
           business operations should ensure that they have sufficient capital to withstand the
           adverse impact of these scenarios.
  31.Institutions should consider internal capital buffer adjustments where the results of their
       stress testing highlight the potential for reduced earnings (and therefore reduced capital
       generation capacity) under stress scenarios.
4.3 Governance
    4.3.1           Overall IRRBB strategy
32.The IRRBB strategy of the institution, including the risk appetite for IRRBB and IRRBB mitigation,
    should be part of the overall strategy, in particular the strategic objectives and risk objectives,
    which the management body must approve as laid down in subparagraph (2), letter (a) of
    Article 88(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU.
33.The institution’s risk appetite for IRRBB should be expressed in terms of the acceptable impact
    of fluctuating interest rates on both earnings and economic value and should be reflected in
    limits. Institutions with significant exposures to gap risk, basis risk or option risk should
    determine their risk appetite in relation to each of these material sub-types of IRRBB.
34.The overall IRRBB strategy should also include the decision about the extent to which the
    business model relies on generating earnings by ‘riding the yield curve’, i.e. funding assets with
    a comparatively long repricing period with liabilities with a comparatively short repricing period.
    Where the business model relies heavily on this source of earnings, the management body
                                                                                                      11

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    should explain its IRRBB strategy and how it plans to survive periods of flat or inverse yield
    curves.
35.Institutions should duly assess proposals to use new products, or engage in new activities, risk-
    taking or hedging strategies, prior to acquisition or implementation to ensure that the resources
    required to establish sound and effective IRRBB management of the product or activity have
    been identified, that the proposed activities are in line with the institution’s overall risk appetite,
    and that procedures to identify, measure, monitor and control the risks of the proposed product
    or activity have been established. It should be ensured that the IRRBB characteristics of these
    new products and activities are well understood.
36.Institutions using derivative instruments to mitigate IRRBB exposures should possess the
    necessary knowledge and expertise. Each institution should demonstrate that it understands
    the consequences of hedging with interest rate derivatives.
37.Institutions using models of customer behaviour as input for the measurement of their IRRBB
    should possess the necessary knowledge and expertise. Each institution should be able to
    demonstrate that it understands the consequences of modelling the behaviour of its customer
    base.
38.When making decisions on hedging activities, institutions should be aware of the effects of
    accounting policies, but the accounting treatment should not drive their risk management
    approach. The management of economic risks should therefore be a priority, and the accounting
    impacts managed as a secondary concern.
39.Consolidating institutions should ensure that internal governance arrangements and processes
    for the management of IRRBB are consistent and well integrated on a consolidated and a sub-
    consolidated basis.
    4.3.2          Risk management framework and responsibilities
40.In view of having internal governance arrangements pursuant to Article 74 and 88 of
    Directive 2013/36/EU, institutions should, in relation to IRRBB, ensure the following:
     (a) That their management body bears the ultimate responsibility for the oversight of the
          IRRBB management framework, the institution’s risk appetite framework and the amounts,
          types and distribution of internal capital to adequately cover the risks. The management
          body should determine the institution’s overall IRRBB strategy and approve the
          corresponding policies and processes. The management body may, however, delegate the
          monitoring and management of IRRBB to senior management, expert individuals or an
          asset and liability management committee under the conditions further specified in
          paragraph 41.
     (b) That they have in place an IRRBB management framework that establishes clear lines of
          responsibilities and that consists of a limit system, policies, processes and internal controls
                                                                                                        12

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
          including regular independent reviews and evaluations of the effectiveness of the
          framework.
41.The management body should, in particular, be responsible for the following:
     (a) Understanding the nature and the level of the IRRBB exposure. The management body
          should ensure that there is clear guidance regarding the risk appetite for IRRBB in respect
          of the institution’s business strategies.
     (b) Establishing that the appropriate actions are taken to identify, measure, monitor and
          control IRRBB, consistent with the approved strategies and policies. In this regard, the
          management body or its delegates are responsible for setting:
              i.   appropriate limits on IRRBB, including the definition of specific procedures and
                   approvals necessary for exceptions, and ensuring compliance with those limits;
             ii.   systems and standards for measuring IRRBB, valuing positions and assessing
                   performance, including procedures for updating interest rate shock and stress
                   scenarios and key underlying assumptions driving the institution’s IRRBB analysis;
            iii.   a comprehensive IRRBB reporting and review process; and
            iv.    effective internal controls and management information systems (MISs).
     (c) Approving major hedging or risk-taking initiatives in advance of implementation. Positions
          related to internal risk transfers between the non-trading book and the trading book should
          be properly documented.
     (d) Carrying out the oversight of the approval, implementation and review of IRRBB
          management policies, procedures and limits. The level of and changes in the institution’s
          IRRBB exposure should be provided regularly to the management body (at least quarterly).
     (e) Ensuring that the validation of IRRBB measurement methods and assessment of
          corresponding model risk are included in a formal policy process that should be reviewed
          and approved by the management body or its delegates.
     (f) Understanding and assessing the functioning of its delegates in monitoring and controlling
          IRRBB, consistent with policies approved by the management body, on the basis of regular
          reviews of timely and sufficiently detailed information.
     (g) Understanding the implications of the institution’s IRRBB strategies and their potential
          linkages with market, liquidity, credit and operational risk but without requiring all the
          management body members to be experts in the area. Some of the members should have
          sufficient technical knowledge to question and challenge the reports made to the
          management body. The institution should establish that management body members are
                                                                                                   13

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
          responsible for ensuring that senior management has the competence to understand IRRBB
          and that IRRBB management is provided with adequate resources.
42.Institutions should have delegation arrangements and procedures in place for any delegation by
    the management body of the monitoring or management of IRRBB, including, but not limited
    to, the following:
     (a) Persons or committees to which tasks of the management body are delegated for
          developing IRRBB policies and practices, such as senior management, expert individuals or
          an asset and liability management committee (ALCO), should be identified and have
          objectives clearly set out by the management body.
     (b) The management body should ensure that there is an adequate separation of
          responsibilities in the risk management process for IRRBB. The IRRBB identification,
          measurement, monitoring and control functions should have clearly defined
          responsibilities, should be independent from risk-taking functions on IRRBB and should
          report IRRBB exposures directly to the management body or its delegates.
     (c) The institution should ensure that the management body’s delegates have clear lines of
          authority over the units responsible for risk taking on IRRBB. The communication channel
          to convey the delegates’ directives to these line units should be clear.
     (d) The management body should establish that the institution’s structure enables its
          delegates to carry out their responsibilities, and facilitates effective decision-making and
          governance. In this regard, an ALCO should meet regularly and its composition should
          reflect each major department linked to IRRBB. The management body should foster
          discussion regarding the IRRBB management process, both between its members and its
          delegates and between its delegates and others in the institution. The management body
          should also ensure that regular communication between the risk management and
          strategic planning areas facilitate the monitoring of the risk arising from future business.
    4.3.3           Risk appetite and policy limits
43.Institutions should articulate their risk appetite for IRRBB in terms of the risk to both economic
    value and earnings in particular:
     (a) Institutions should have clearly defined risk appetite statements that are approved by their
          management body and implemented through comprehensive risk appetite frameworks,
          i.e. policies and procedures for limiting and controlling IRRBB.
     (b) Their risk appetite frameworks should delineate delegated powers, lines of responsibility
          and accountability over IRRBB management decisions and should list the instruments,
          hedging strategies and risk-taking opportunities authorised for IRRBB.
                                                                                                     14

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
     (c) In defining their risk appetites, institutions should take account of earnings risks that may
          arise as a consequence of the accounting treatment of transactions in the non-trading
          book. The risk to earnings may not be limited to interest income and expenses: the effects
          of changes in interest rates on the market value of instruments that, depending on
          accounting treatment, are reflected either through the profit and loss account or directly
          in equity (via other comprehensive income), should be taken into account separately.
          Institutions should particularly take into account the earnings impact related to embedded
          optionalities in fair value instruments under ongoing interest rate shocks and stress
          scenarios. Institutions should also take into account the potential impact on the P&L
          accounts of hedging interest rate derivatives if their effectiveness was hampered by
          interest rate changes.
44.Institutions should implement limits that target maintaining IRRBB exposures consistent with
    their risk appetite and with their overall approach for measuring IRRBB, in particular the
    following:
     (a) Aggregate risk limits that clearly articulate the amount of IRRBB acceptable to the
          management body should be applied on a consolidated basis and, as appropriate, at the
          level of individual affiliates.
     (b) Limits may be associated with specific scenarios of changes in interest rates and term
          structures, such as their increase or decrease or a change in shape of the yield curve. The
          interest rate movements used in developing these limits should represent sufficiently
          adverse shock and stress situations, taking into account historical interest rate volatility and
          the time required by management to mitigate those risk exposures.
     (c) Policy limits should be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity and capital adequacy of
          the institution, as well as its ability to measure and manage its risks.
     (d) Depending on the nature of an institution's activities and business model, sub-limits may
          also be identified for individual business units, portfolios, instrument types, specific
          instruments or material sub-types of IRRBB risk such as gap risk, basis risk and option risk.
     (e) Systems should be in place to ensure that positions that exceed, or are likely to exceed,
          limits defined by the management body or its delegates receive prompt management
          attention and are escalated without delay. There should be a clear policy on who will be
          informed, how the communication will take place and the actions which will be taken in
          response.
     (f) The reporting of risk measures to the management body or its delegates should have at
          least a quarterly frequency and should compare current exposure with policy limits.
45.A framework should be in place to monitor the evolution of hedging strategies that rely on
    instruments such as derivatives, and to control mark-to-market risks in instruments that are
    accounted for at market value.
                                                                                                        15

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    4.3.4          Risk policies, processes and controls
a.        Risk policies and processes
46.The management body should, based on its overall IRRBB strategy, adopt robust risk policies,
    processes and systems which should ensure that:
     (a) procedures for updating scenarios for the measurement and assessment of IRRBB are set
          up;
     (b) the measurement approach and the corresponding assumptions for measuring and
          assessing IRRBB, including the allocation of internal capital to IRRBB risks, are appropriate
          and proportional;
     (c) the assumptions of the models used are regularly reviewed and, if necessary, amended;
     (d) standards for the evaluation of positions and the measuring of performance are defined;
     (e) appropriate documentation and control over permissible hedging strategies and hedging
          instruments exist; and
     (f) the lines of authority and responsibility for managing IRRBB exposures are defined.
47.The policies should be well reasoned, robust and documented and should address all IRRBB
    components that are important to the institution’s individual circumstances. Without prejudice
    to the proportionality principle, the IRRBB policies should include the following:
     (a) The application of the boundary between ‘non-trading book’ and ‘trading book’. Internal
          risk transfers between the banking book and the trading book should be properly
          documented and monitored within the broader monitoring of the IRRBB originated by
          interest rate derivatives instruments.
     (b) The more detailed definition of economic value and its consistency with the method used
          to value assets and liabilities (e.g. based on the discounted value of future cash flows, and
          on the discounted value of future earnings) adopted for internal use.
     (c) The more detailed definition of earnings risk and its consistency with the institution’s
          approach to developing financial plans and financial forecasts adopted for internal use.
     (d) The size and the form of the different interest rate shocks to be used for internal IRRBB
          calculations.
     (e) The use of conditional or unconditional cash flow modelling approaches.
                                                                                                     16

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
     (f) The treatment of ‘pipeline transactions’7 (including any related hedging).
     (g) The aggregation of multicurrency interest rate exposures.
     (h) The measurement and management of basis risk resulting from different interest rate
          indexes.
     (i) Whether or not non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities of the non-trading book
          (including capital and reserves) are included in calculations measuring IRRBB for the ICAAP.
     (j) The behavioural treatment of current and savings accounts (i.e. the maturity assumed for
          liabilities with short contractual maturity but long behavioural maturity).
     (k) The measurement of IRRBB arising from behavioural and automatic options in assets or
          liabilities, including convexity effects and non-linear payoff profiles.
     (l) The degree of granularity employed in measurement calculations (e.g. use of time buckets).
     (m) The internal definition of commercial margins and adequate methodology for internal
          treatment of commercial margins.
48.All IRRBB policies should be reviewed regularly, at least annually, and revised as needed.
49.To ensure that the institution’s IRRBB management policies and procedures remain appropriate
    and sound, the management body or its delegates should review the IRRBB management
    policies and procedures in the light of the outcomes of regular reports.
50.The management body or its delegates should ensure that analysis and risk management
    activities related to IRRBB are conducted by sufficient and competent staff with technical
    knowledge and experience, consistent with the nature and scope of the institution’s activities.
b.        Internal controls
51.With regard to IRRBB control policies and procedures, institutions should have appropriate
    approval processes, exposure limits, reviews and other mechanisms designed to provide a
    reasonable assurance that risk management objectives are being achieved.
52.Institutions should undertake regular reviews and evaluations of their internal control systems
    and risk management processes, seeking assurance that personnel comply with established
    policies and procedures. Such reviews should also address any significant changes that may
    affect the effectiveness of controls, including changes in market conditions, personnel,
    technology and structures of compliance with exposure limits, and ensure that there are
7 Pipeline exposures (e.g. where a loan has been agreed and the customer can choose whether to draw down
or not) effectively provide the customer with an option that will most likely be exercised when market
conditions least suit the institution (negative convexity). Management of pipeline exposures relies on
accurate data on applications received, and modelling of expected drawdowns.
                                                                                                      17

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    appropriate escalation procedures for any exceeded limits. The reviews and evaluations should
    be conducted regularly by individuals or units that are independent of the function under
    review. When revisions or enhancements to internal controls are warranted, there should be an
    internal review mechanism in place to ensure that these are implemented in a timely manner.
53.Institutions should have their IRRBB identification, measurement, monitoring and control
    processes reviewed by an independent auditing function, which may be an internal or external
    auditor, on a regular basis. In such cases, reports written by internal or external auditors or other
    equivalent external parties should be made available to relevant competent authorities.
c.        IRRBB IT system and data quality
54.The IT systems and applications used by the institution to carry out, process and record
    operations, to identify, measure and aggregate IRRBB exposures, and to generate reports should
    be capable of supporting the management of IRRBB in a timely and accurate manner. In
    particular, the systems should:
       (a) Capture interest rate risk data on all the institution’s material IRRBB exposures including
            exposures to gap, basis, and option risk. This should support the institution’s
            measurement system to identify, measure and aggregate the major sources of IRRBB
            exposures.
       (b) Be capable of fully and clearly recording all transactions made by the institution, taking
            into account their IRRBB characteristics.
       (c) Be tailored to the complexity and number of transactions creating IRRBB.
       (d) Offer sufficient flexibility to accommodate a reasonable range of shock and stress
            scenarios and any additional scenarios.
       (e) Enable the institutions to fully measure, assess and monitor the contribution of individual
            transactions to their overall exposure.
       (f) Be able to compute economic value and earnings-based measures of IRRBB, as well as
            other measures of IRRBB prescribed by their competent authorities, based on the interest
            rate shock and stress scenarios set out in sections 4.4.3 and 4.4.4.
       (g) Be sufficiently flexible to incorporate supervisory-imposed constraints on institutions’
            internal risk parameter assumptions.
55.The IT system and transaction system should be capable of recording the repricing profile,
    interest rate characteristics (including spread) and option characteristics of the products to
    enable measurement of gap risk, basis risk and option risk. In particular, the transaction system
    should be able to gather detailed information on the repricing date(s) of a given transaction,
    interest rate type or index, any options (including early repayment or redemption) and the fees
    relating to the exercise of these options.
                                                                                                       18

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
56.The systems used to measure IRRBB should be capable of capturing the IRRBB characteristics of
    all products. The systems should also allow the disaggregation of the impact of individual IRRBB
    instruments and portfolios at the risk level of the non-trading book.
57.For complex, structured products in particular, the transaction system should be able to gather
    information about the separate parts of the product and to capture their IRRBB characteristics
    (e.g. the characteristics of assets and liabilities grouped by certain characteristics such as
    repricing dates or optionality elements). The institution should ensure that the IT system is able
    to keep pace with the introduction of new products.
58.Adequate organisational controls of IT systems should be in place to prevent the corruption of
    data used by IRRBB computer systems and applications, and to control changes to the coding
    used in those applications, so as to ensure, in particular:
     (a) the reliability of data used as input, and the integrity of processing systems for IRRBB
          models;
     (b) that the likelihood of errors occurring in the IT system, including those occurring during
          data processing and aggregation, is minimised; and
     (c) that adequate measures are taken if market disruptions or slumps occur.
59.Risk measures should be based on reliable market and internal data. Institutions should
    scrutinise the quality of external sources of information used to establish the historical
    databases of interest rates, as well as the frequency at which databases are updated.
60.To ensure the high quality of data, institutions should implement appropriate processes that
    ensure that the data entered into the IT system is correct. Data inputs should be automated as
    much as possible to reduce administrative errors, and data mapping should be periodically
    reviewed and tested against an approved model version. In addition, there should be sufficient
    documentation of the major data sources used in the institution’s risk measurement process.
    Institutions should also establish appropriate mechanisms to verify the correctness of the
    aggregation process and the reliability of model results. These mechanisms should confirm the
    accuracy and reliability of data.
61.Where institutions slot cash flows into different time buckets (e.g. for gap analyses) or assign
    the cash flows to different vertex points to reflect the different tenors of the interest rate curve,
    the slotting criteria should be stable over time to allow a meaningful comparison of risk figures
    over different periods.
62.Institutions should identify potential reasons for discrepancies and irregularities that may arise
    at the time of data processing. Institutions should have procedures in place to handle those
    discrepancies and irregularities, including procedures for the mutual reconciliation of positions
    to enable these discrepancies and irregularities to be eliminated.
                                                                                                      19

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
63.Institutions should set up appropriate processes to ensure that the data used to feed models
    measuring the IRRBB across the group — e.g. for simulating earnings — is consistent with the
    data used for financial planning.
d.        Internal reporting
64.Institutions’ internal risk-reporting systems should provide timely, accurate and comprehensive
    information about their exposures to IRRBB. The frequency of internal reports should be at least
    quarterly.
65.The internal reports should be provided to the management body or its delegates with
    information at relevant levels of aggregation (by consolidation level and currency), and reviewed
    regularly. The reports should contain a level of information adapted to the particular
    management level (e.g. management body, senior management) and to the specific situation of
    the institution and the economic environment.
66.The IRRBB reports should provide aggregate information as well as sufficient supporting detail
    to enable the management body or its delegates to assess the sensitivity of the institution to
    changes in market conditions and other important risk factors. The content of the reports should
    reflect changes in the risk profile of the institution and in the economic environment, and
    compare current exposure with policy limits.
67.The IRRBB reports should, on a regular basis, include the results of the model reviews and audits
    as well as comparisons of past forecasts or risk estimates with actual results to inform potential
    modelling shortcomings. In particular, institutions should assess the modelled prepayment
    losses against historical realised losses. Portfolios that may be subject to significant mark-to-
    market movements should be clearly identified and the impact should be monitored within the
    institution’s MIS and subject to oversight in line with any other portfolios exposed to market
    risk.
68.While the types of reports prepared for the management body or its delegates will vary based
    on the institution’s portfolio composition, they should include, taking into account
    paragraph 65, the following:
    (a) Summaries of the institution’s aggregate IRRBB exposures, including information on
         exposures to gap, basis and option risk. Assets, liabilities, cash flows, and strategies that are
         driving the level and direction of IRRBB should be identified and explained.
    (b) Reports demonstrating the institution’s compliance with policies and limits.
    (c) Key modelling assumptions, such as characteristics of non-maturity deposits (NMDs),
         prepayments on fixed rate loans, early withdrawals of fixed term deposits, drawing of
         commitments, currency aggregation and treatment of commercial margins.
                                                                                                        20

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    (d) Details of the impact of key modelling assumptions on the measurement of IRRBB in terms
         of both economic value measures and earnings measures, including changes in assumptions
         under various interest rate scenarios.
    (e) Details of the impact of interest rate derivatives on the measurement of IRRBB, in terms of
         both economic value measures and earnings measures.
    (f) Details of the impact of fair value instruments, including Level 3 assets and liabilities, on the
         measurement of IRRBB in terms of both economic value measures and earnings measures.
    (g) Results of stress tests as referred to in section 4.4.4, the shocks as referred to in
         section 4.4.3, the supervisory outlier test as referred to in section 4.5, and assessments of
         sensitivity to key assumptions and parameters; and
    (h) Summaries of the reviews of IRRBB policies, procedures and adequacy of the measurement
         systems, including any findings of internal and external auditors or other equivalent external
         parties (such as consultants).
69.Based on these reports, the management body or its delegates should be able to assess the
    sensitivity of the institution to changes in market conditions and other important risk factors,
    with particular reference to portfolios that may potentially be subject to significant mark-to-
    market movements.
70.The internal measurement system should generate reports in a format that allows the different
    levels of the institution’s management to understand the reports easily and to make appropriate
    decisions in a timely manner. The reports should constitute the basis for regular monitoring of
    whether or not the institution operates in line with its strategy and the interest rate risk limits
    it has adopted.
e.        Model governance
71.Institutions should ensure that the validation of IRRBB measurement methods — which should
    be reviewed and validated independently of their development — and the assessment of
    corresponding model risk are included in a formal policy process that should be reviewed and
    approved by the management body or its delegates. The policy should be integrated within the
    governance processes for model risk management and should specify:
            (a) the management roles and designate who is responsible for the development,
                validation, documentation, implementation and use of models; and
            (b) the model oversight responsibilities as well as policies including the development of
                initial and ongoing validation procedures, evaluation of results, approval, version
                control, exception, escalation, modification and decommission processes.
72.The validation framework should include the following four core elements:
                                                                                                       21

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
           (a) evaluation of conceptual and methodological soundness, including developmental
                evidence;
           (b) ongoing model monitoring, including process verification and benchmarking;
           (c) outcomes analysis, including back-testing of key internal parameters (e.g. stability of
                deposits, loan prepayment rates, early redemptions of deposits, pricing of
                instruments); and
           (d) thorough assessment of any expert opinions and judgements used in internal models.
73.In addressing the expected initial and ongoing validation activities, the policy should establish a
    hierarchical process for determining model risk soundness based on both quantitative and
    qualitative dimensions such as size, impact, past performance and staff expertise with the
    modelling technique employed.
74.Model risk management for IRRBB measures should follow a holistic approach that begins with
    motivation, development and implementation by model owners and users. Prior to receiving
    internal approval for usage, the process for determining model inputs, assumptions, modelling
    methodologies and outputs should be reviewed and validated independently of the
    development of IRRBB models.
75.The review and validation results and any recommendations on model usage should be
    presented to and approved by the management body or its delegates. Upon approval, the model
    should be subject to ongoing review, process verification and validation at a frequency that is
    consistent with the level of model risk determined and approved by the institution.
76.The ongoing review process should establish a set of exception trigger events that obligate the
    model reviewers to notify the management body or its delegates in a timely fashion, in order to
    determine corrective actions and restrictions on model usage. Clear version control
    authorisations should be designated, where appropriate, to model owners.
77.On the basis of observations and new information gained over time, an approved model may be
    modified or withdrawn. Institutions should articulate policies for model transition, including
    change and version control authorisations and documentation.
78.Institutions may rely on third-party IRRBB models to manage and control IRRBB, provided that
    these models are adequately customised to properly reflect the specific characteristics of the
    institution in question. Institutions are expected to fully understand the underlying analytics,
    assumptions and methodologies of the third-party models and to ensure that they are
    adequately integrated into the institutions’ overall risk management systems and processes.
    Where third parties provide input for market data, behavioural assumptions or model settings,
    the institution should have a process in place to determine if those inputs are reasonable for its
    business and the risk characteristics of its activities. Institutions should ensure there is adequate
    documentation of their use of third-party models, including any specific customisation.
                                                                                                       22

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
79.Model inputs or assumptions, whether stemming from internal model processes or from third
    parties, should be included in the validation process. The institution should document and
    explain model specification choices as part of the validation process.
4.4 Measurement
    4.4.1          General approach to measurement of IRRBB
80.Institutions should implement robust internal measurement systems (IMSs) that capture all
    components and sources of IRRBB which are relevant for the institution’s business model.
81.Institutions should measure their exposure to IRRBB in terms of potential changes to both the
    economic value (EV) and earnings. Institutions should use complementary features of both
    approaches to capture the complex nature of IRRBB over the short-term and long-term time
    horizons. In particular, institutions should measure and monitor (i) the overall impact of key
    modelling assumptions on the measurement of IRRBB in terms of both economic value
    measures and earnings measures, and (ii) the IRRBB of their banking book interest rate
    derivatives where relevant for the business model.
82.If commercial margins and other spread components are excluded from economic value
    measures, institutions should (i) use a transparent methodology for identifying the risk-free rate
    at inception of each instrument; and (ii) use a methodology that is applied consistently across
    all interest rate sensitive instruments and all business units.
83.When calculating earnings measures, institutions should include commercial margins.
84.Institutions should consider non-performing exposures (net of provisions) as interest rate
    sensitive instruments reflecting expected cash flows and their timing.
85.When measuring their exposure to IRRBB, institutions should not purely rely on the calculation
    and outcomes of the supervisory outlier tests as described in section 4.5, or any additional
    outlier test developed by the competent authority, but should develop and use their own
    assumptions and calculation methods. However, the supervisory outlier tests should be fully
    integrated into the internal framework for the management of IRRBB and should be used as
    complementary tools for measuring exposure to IRRBB.
    4.4.2          Methods for measuring IRRBB
86.Institutions should not rely on a single measure of risk but should instead use the range of
    quantitative tools and models that corresponds to their specific risk exposure. To that end,
    institutions should consider the application of the methods listed in Annex I but not limited to
    those, to ensure that various aspects of interest rate risk are captured adequately.
87.The limitations of each quantitative tool and model used should be fully understood by the
    institution, and these limitations should be taken into account in the IRRBB risk management
                                                                                                    23

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    process. In assessing IRRBB, institutions should be aware of the risks that may arise as a
    consequence of accounting treatment of transactions in the non-trading book.
88.Institutions should identify and measure all components of IRRBB. In order to identify different
    components of IRRBB, institutions should at least consider those approaches as shown in
    Table 1.
Table 1: Identification of sub-components of interest rate risk in the non-trading book
 Component              Method                         Focus
                        Gap analysis                   The volume of mismatches in different time
                                                       bands
 Gap risk
                        Partial duration for yield     The dispersion and concentration of
                        curve risk                     mismatches in different time bands
                                                       Use of derivatives and other hedging
                        Inventory of instrument
                                                       instruments in terms of different bases,
 Basis risk             groups based on different
                                                       convexity and timing difference neglected
                        interest rates
                                                       by gap analysis
                                                       Behavioural options
                                                       The volume of mortgages, current
                                                       accounts, savings and deposits where the
                                                       customer has the option to deviate from
                                                       the contractual maturity; the volume of
 Option risk            Inventory of all               commitments with interest rate sensitive
 (automatic and         instruments with               customer drawings
 behavioural            embedded or explicit
                        options                        Automatic interest rate options
 options)
                                                       Caps, and floors embedded in assets and
                                                       liabilities; swaptions or prepayment options
                                                       embedded in wholesale assets and
                                                       liabilities; and explicit caps, floors and
                                                       swaptions
89.For measuring and monitoring of IRRBB, institutions should use at least one earnings-based
    measure and at least one economic value measurement method that, in combination, capture
    all components of IRRBB. Large institutions with cross-border activities, in particular institutions
    under categories 1 and 2 of the SREP Guidelines, and institutions with complex or sophisticated
    business models, should use multiple measurement methods, as further specified in Annex II.
    4.4.3          Interest rate shock scenarios for ongoing management
90.Institutions should regularly, at least quarterly and more frequently in times of increased
    interest rate volatility or increased IRRBB levels, measure their exposure to IRRBB in terms of
                                                                                                      24

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    changes in economic value and earnings under various interest rate shock scenarios for potential
    changes in the level and shape of the interest rate yield curves, and to changes in the
    relationship between different interest rates (i.e. basis risk).
91.Institutions should also consider whether to apply a conditional or unconditional cash flow
    modelling approach. Larger and more complex institutions, in particular institutions under
    categories 1 and 2 of the SREP Guidelines, should also take into account scenarios where
    different interest rate paths are computed and where some of the assumptions (e.g. relating to
    behaviour, contribution to risk, and balance sheet size and composition) are themselves
    functions of changing interest rate levels.
92.Institutions should assess exposures in each currency in which they have positions. For the
    material currency exposures, the interest rate shock scenarios should be currency-specific and
    consistent with the underlying economic characteristics. Institutions should include in their
    internal measurement systems methods to aggregate their IRRBB across different currencies.
    Where institutions make use of assumptions about dependencies between interest rates in
    different currencies, they should have the necessary level of skills and sophistication to do so.
    Institutions should take into account the impact of assumptions regarding dependencies
    between interest rates across different currencies.
93.When selecting interest rate shock scenarios, institutions should consider the following:
          (a) That their own internally developed interest rate shock scenarios be commensurate
              with the nature, scale and complexity of their activities as well as their risk profile,
              taking into account sudden and gradual parallel and non-parallel shifts and changes in
              the yield curves. Scenarios should be based on the historical movements and behaviour
              of interest rates, as well as simulations of future interest rates.
          (b) Interest rate scenarios that reflect changes in the relationships between key market
              rates in order to address basis risk.
          (c) The six prescribed interest rate shock scenarios set out in Annex III.
          (d) Any additional interest rate shock scenarios required by supervisors.
94.In low interest rate environments, institutions should also consider negative interest rate
    scenarios and the possibility of asymmetrical effects of negative interest rates on their interest
    rate sensitive instruments.
95.The results of shock scenarios should feed into the decision-making at appropriate management
    level. This includes strategic or business decisions, the allocation of internal capital, and risk
    management decisions by the management body or its delegates. The results should also be
    considered when establishing and reviewing the policies and limits for IRRBB.
                                                                                                   25

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    4.4.4           Interest rate stress scenarios
96.IRRBB stress testing should be considered in the ICAAP, where institutions should undertake
    rigorous, forward-looking stress testing that identifies the potential adverse consequences of
    severe changes in market conditions on their capital or earnings, including through changes in
    the behaviour of their customer base. Stress testing for IRRBB should be integrated into
    institutions’ overall stress-testing framework, including reverse stress testing, and should be
    commensurate with their nature, size and complexity, as well as their business activities and
    overall risk profile.
97.IRRBB stress testing should be performed regularly, at least annually and more frequently in
    times of increased interest rate volatility and increased IRRBB levels.
98.The IRRBB stress-testing framework should include clearly defined objectives, scenarios tailored
    to the institution’s businesses and risks, well-documented assumptions and sound
    methodologies.
99.In enterprise-wide stress tests, the interaction of IRRBB with other risk categories (e.g. credit
    risk, liquidity risk, market risks), and any material second-round effects, should be computed.
100. Institutions should perform reverse stress tests in order to (i) identify interest rate
    scenarios that could severely threaten an institution’s capital and earnings; and (ii) reveal
    vulnerabilities arising from its hedging strategies and the potential behavioural reactions of its
    customers.
101. In testing vulnerabilities under stressed conditions, institutions should use larger and more
    extreme shifts and changes in interest rates than those used for the purpose of ongoing
    management, including at least the following:
          a) substantial changes in the relationships between key market rates (basis risk);
          b) sudden and substantial shifts in the yield curve (both parallel and non-parallel);
          c) breakdowns of key assumptions about the behaviour of asset and liability classes;
          d) changes in key interest rate correlation assumptions;
          e) significant changes to current market and macro conditions and to the competitive and
               economic environment, and their possible development; and
          f)   specific scenarios that relate to the individual business model and profile of the
               institution.
102. The results of stress scenarios should feed into the decision-making at the appropriate
    management level. This includes strategic or business decisions, the allocation of internal
                                                                                                   26

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    capital, and risk management decisions by the management body or its delegates. The results
    should also be considered when establishing and reviewing the policies and limits for IRRBB.
    4.4.5          Measurement assumptions
103. When measuring IRRBB, institutions should fully understand and document key
    behavioural and modelling assumptions. These assumptions should be aligned with business
    strategies and be regularly tested.
104. Institutions should, in relation to both economic value and earnings-based measures of
    IRRBB, take into account assumptions made for the purpose of risk quantification in relation to
    at least the following areas:
     a) the exercise of interest rate options (automatic or behavioural) by both the institution and
          its customer under specific interest shock and stress scenarios;
     b) the treatment of balances and interest flows arising from NMDs;
     c) the treatment of fixed term deposits with risk of early redemption;
     d) the treatment of fixed rate loans and fixed rate loan commitments;
     e) the treatment of own equity in internal economic value measures;
     f)   the implications of accounting practices for the measurement of IRRBB, and in particular
          hedge-accounting effectiveness.
105. As market conditions, competitive environments and strategies change over time,
    institutions should review significant measurement assumptions at least annually, and more
    frequently during rapidly changing market conditions.
a) Behavioural assumptions for customer accounts with embedded customer optionality
106.      In assessing the implications of optionality, institutions should take into account:
     (a) The potential impact on current and future loan prepayment speeds arising from the
          interest rate scenario, underlying economic environment and contractual features.
          Institutions should take into account the various dimensions influencing the embedded
          behavioural options.
     (b) The elasticity of adjustment of product rates to changes in market interest rates.
     (c) The migration of balances between product types as a result of changes in their features,
          terms and conditions.
107. Institutions should have policies in place governing the setting of, and the regular
    assessment of, the key assumptions for the treatment of on- and off-balance-sheet items that
                                                                                                  27

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    have embedded options in their interest rate risk framework. This means that institutions
    should:
     (a) identify all material products and items subject to embedded options that could affect
          either the interest rate charged or the behavioural repricing date (as opposed to
          contractual maturity date) of the relevant balances;
     (b) have appropriate pricing and risk mitigation strategies (e.g. use of derivatives) to manage
          the impact of optionality within the risk appetite, which may include early redemption
          penalties chargeable to the customer as an offset to the potential break costs (where
          permitted);
     (c) ensure that modelling of key behavioural assumptions is justifiable in relation to the
          underlying historical data, and based on prudent hypotheses;
     (d) be able to demonstrate that they have accurate modelling (back-tested against
          experience);
     (e) maintain appropriate documentation of assumptions in their policies and procedures, and
          have a process for keeping them under review;
     (f) understand the sensitivity of the institution’s risk measurement outputs to these
          assumptions, including undertaking stress testing of the assumptions and taking the results
          of such tests into account in internal capital allocation decisions; and
     (g) perform regular internal validation of these assumptions to verify their stability over time
          and to adjust them if necessary.
b) Behavioural assumptions for customer accounts without specific repricing dates
108. In making behavioural assumptions about accounts without specific repricing dates for the
    purposes of interest rate risk management, institutions should:
     (a) Be able to identify ‘core’ balances, i.e. deposits that are stable and unlikely to reprice even
          under significant changes in interest rate environment, and/or other deposits whose
          limited elasticity to interest rate changes could be modelled by banks.
     (b) Modelling assumptions for these deposits should reflect depositor characteristics (e.g.
          retail/wholesale) and account characteristics (e.g. transactional/non-transactional). A high-
          level description of the above categories can be found below:
             i.    Retail transactional deposits include non-interest-bearing and other retail accounts
                   whose remuneration component is not relevant in the client’s decision to hold
                   money in the account.
                                                                                                      28

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
             ii.   Retail non-transactional deposits include retail accounts (including regulated ones)
                   whose remuneration component is relevant in the client’s decision to hold money
                   in the account.
            iii.   Wholesale deposits include accounts from corporate and other wholesale clients,
                   excluding interbank accounts or other fully price-sensitive ones.
     (c) Assess the potential migration between deposits without specific repricing dates and other
          deposits that could modify, under different interest rate scenarios, key behavioural
          modelling assumptions.
     (d) Consider potential constraints on the repricing of retail deposits in low or negative interest
          rate environments.
     (e) Ensure that assumptions about the decay of core and other modelled balances are prudent
          and appropriate in balancing the benefits to earnings against the additional economic value
          risk entailed in locking in a future interest rate return on the assets financed by these
          balances, and the potential forgone revenue under a rising interest rate environment.
     (f) Not exclusively rely on statistical or quantitative methods to determine the behavioural
          repricing dates and the cash flow profile of NMDs. Further, the determination of
          appropriate modelling assumptions for NMDs may require the collaboration of different
          experts within an institution (e.g. risk management and risk control department, sales and
          treasury).
     (g) Have appropriate documentation of these assumptions in their policies and procedures,
          and a process for keeping them under review.
     (h) Understand the impact of the assumptions on the institution’s own chosen risk
          measurement outputs and internal capital allocation decisions, including by periodically
          calculating sensitivity analyses on key parameters (e.g. percentage and maturity of core
          balances on accounts and pass-through rate) and the measures using contractual terms
          rather than behavioural assumptions to isolate the impact of assumptions on both
          economic value and earnings.
     (i) Undertake stress testing to understand the sensitivity of the chosen risk measures to
          changes in key assumptions, taking the results of such tests into account in internal capital
          allocation decisions.
c) Corporate planning assumptions for own equity capital
109. Where institutions decide to adopt a policy intended to stabilise earnings arising from their
    own equity, they should:
     (a) have an appropriate methodology for determining what elements of equity capital should
          be considered eligible for such treatment;
                                                                                                    29

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
     (b) determine what would be a prudent investment maturity profile for the eligible equity
          capital that balances the benefits of income stabilisation arising from taking longer-dated
          fixed-return positions against the additional economic value sensitivity of those positions
          under an interest rate stress, and the risk of earnings underperformance should rates rise;
     (c) include appropriate documentation of these assumptions in their policies and procedures,
          and include a process for keeping them under review;
     (d) understand the impact of the chosen maturity profile on the institution’s own chosen risk
          measurement outputs, including by regular calculation of the measures without inclusion
          of the equity capital to isolate the effects on both EVE and earnings perspectives; and
     (e) undertake stress testing to understand the sensitivity of risk measures to changes in key
          assumptions for equity capital, taking the results of such tests into account in their IRRBB
          internal capital allocation decisions.
110. In deciding the investment term assumptions for equity capital, institutions should avoid
    taking income stabilisation positions that significantly reduce their capability to adjust to
    significant changes in the underlying economic and business environment.
111. The investment term assumptions used to manage the risks to earnings and economic value
    sensitivity arising from equity capital should be considered as part of the normal corporate
    planning cycle, and such assumptions should not be altered just to reflect a change in the
    institution’s expectations of the path of future interest rates. Any use of derivative or asset
    portfolios to achieve the desired investment profile should be clearly documented and
    recorded.
112. Where an institution has not set explicit assumptions for the investment term of equity
    capital or sets assumptions that are explicitly short-term, the institution should make sure that
    its systems and management information can identify the implications of its chosen approach
    for the volatility of both earnings and economic value.
4.5 Supervisory outlier test
113. Institutions should regularly, at least quarterly, calculate the impact on their EVE of a
    sudden parallel +/-200 basis points shift of the yield curve. Institutions should report regularly,
    at least annually, to the competent authority the change in EVE that results from the calculation.
    Where the decline in EVE is greater than 20% of the institution’s own funds, the institution
    should inform the competent authority immediately.
114. Institutions should regularly, at least quarterly, calculate the impact on their EVE of interest
    rate shocks, applying scenarios 1 to 6 as set out in Annex III. Institutions should report regularly,
    at least annually through the ICAAP report, to the competent authority the change in EVE that
    results from the calculation. Where the decline in EVE is greater than 15% of the institution’s
                                                                                                      30

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
    Tier 1 capital under any of the six scenarios, the institution should inform the competent
    authority.
115. When calculating the change in EVE for the purpose of paragraphs 113 and 114, institutions
    should in particular apply the following principles:
           (a) All positions from interest rate sensitive instruments should be taken into account.
           (b) Small trading book business should be included unless its interest rate risk is captured
               in another risk measure.
           (c) All CET1 instruments and other perpetual own funds without any call dates should be
               excluded from the calculation of the standard EVE outlier test.
           (d) Institutions should reflect automatic and behavioural options in the calculation.
               Institutions should adjust key behavioural modelling assumptions to the features of
               different interest rate scenarios.
           (e) Pension obligations and pension plan assets should be included unless their interest
               rate risk is captured in another risk measure.
           (f) The cash flows from interest rate sensitive instruments should include any repayment
               of principal, any repricing of principal and any interest payments.
           (g) Institutions with an NPE ratio8 of 2% or more should include NPEs as general interest
               rate sensitive instruments whose modelling should reflect expected cash flows and
               their timing. NPEs should be included net of provisions.
           (h) Institutions should consider instrument-specific interest rate floors.
           (i) The treatment of commercial margins and other spread components in interest
               payments in terms of their exclusion from or inclusion in the cash flows should be in
               accordance with the institutions’ internal management and measurement approach for
               interest rate risk in the non-trading book. Institutions should notify the competent
               authority whether they exclude commercial margins and other spread components
               from the calculation or not. If commercial margins and other spread components are
               excluded, institutions should (i) use a transparent methodology for identifying the risk-
               free rate at inception of each instrument; (ii) use a methodology that is applied
               consistently across business units; and (iii) ensure that the exclusion of commercial
               margins and other spread components from the cash flows is consistent with how the
               institution manages and hedges IRRBB.
           (j) The change in EVE should be computed with the assumption of a run-off balance sheet.
8 Ratio of non-performing exposures (non-performing debt securities and loans and advances/total gross debt securities
and loans and advances) calculated at the level of the institution.
                                                                                                                   31

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
          (k) A maturity-dependent post-shock interest rate floor should be applied for each
              currency starting with -100 basis points for immediate maturities. This floor should
              increase by 5 basis points per year, eventually reaching 0% for maturities of 20 years
              and more. If observed rates are lower than the current lower reference rate
              of -100 basis points, institutions should apply the lower observed rate9.
          (l) Institutions should calculate the change in EVE at least for each currency where the
              assets or liabilities denominated in that currency amount to 5% or more of the total
              non-trading book financial assets (excluding tangible assets) or liabilities, or less than
              5% if the sum of assets or liabilities included in the calculation is lower than 90% of total
              non-trading book financial assets (excluding tangible assets) or liabilities (material
              positions).
          (m) When calculating the aggregate EVE change for each interest rate shock scenario,
              institutions should add together any negative and positive changes to EVE occurring in
              each currency. Positive changes should be weighted by a factor of 50%.
          (n) An appropriate general ‘risk-free’ yield curve per currency should be applied (e.g. swap
              rate curves). That curve should not include instrument-specific or entity-specific credit
              spreads or liquidity spreads.
          (o) The assumed behavioural repricing date for retail and non-financial wholesale deposits
              without any specific repricing dates (non-maturity deposits) should be constrained to
              a maximum average of 5 years. The 5-year cap applies individually for each currency.
              Non-maturity deposits from financial institutions should not be subject to behavioural
              modelling.
116. When computing the effects of the standard EVE outlier test, institutions should use the
    calculation methods set out under the economic value of equity headings in Annex I and
    Annex II.
9 The EBA might envisage revising this floor to ensure that the lower reference rate will be sufficiently prudent given
future developments in the interest rates.
                                                                                                                     32

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
Annex I — IRRBB measurement methods
 Cash flow                                                                                                       Risks
                        Metric           Description                                                                            Limitations of metric
 modelling                                                                                                       captured
                                                                                                                                 <U+F0B7> The metric approximates the gap risk
                                         Gap analysis allocates all relevant interest rate sensitive instruments
                        Earnings-                                                                                                  only linearly.
                                         into predefined time buckets according to their repricing or
                        based:                                                                                                   <U+F0B7> It is based on the assumption that all
                                         maturity dates, which are either contractually fixed or based on        Gap risk
                        <U+F0B7> Gap                                                                                                      positions within a particular time
                                         behavioural assumptions. It calculates the net positions (‘gaps’) in    (only parallel
                          analysis:                                                                                                bucket mature or reprice
                                         each time bucket. It approximates the change in net interest rate       risk)
                          Repricing                                                                                                simultaneously.
                                         income ensuing from a yield curve shift by multiplying each net
                          gap                                                                                                    <U+F0B7> It fails to measure basis and option
                                         position with the corresponding interest rate change.
                                                                                                                                   risk.
                                         The modified duration approximates the relative change in the net
 Unconditional cash                      present value of a financial instrument due to a marginal parallel
 flows (it is assumed                    shift of the yield curve by one percentage point. The modified
 that the timing of                      duration of equity measures the exposure of an institution to gap
 cash flows is          Economic         risk in its non-trading book. PV01 of equity is derived from the                        <U+F0B7> The metric only applies to marginal
 independent of the     value:           modified duration of equity and measures the absolute change of                           shifts of the yield curve. In the
 specific interest      <U+F0B7> Duration       the equity value resulting from a 1 basis point (0.01%) parallel shift                    presences of convexities, it may
 rate scenario)           analysis:      of the yield curve.                                                     Gap risk          underestimate the effect of larger
                          Modified                                                                               (only parallel    interest rate movements
                          duration/P     The starting point is the allocation of all cash flows of interest rate risk)           <U+F0B7> It only applies to parallel shifts of the
                          V01 of         sensitive instruments into time buckets. For each instrument type,                        yield curve
                          equity         an appropriate yield curve is selected. The modified duration of                        <U+F0B7> It fails to measure option risk and
                                         each instrument is calculated from the change of its net present                          captures basis risk at best partially.
                                         value due to a 1 percentage point parallel shift of the yield curve.
                                         The modified duration of equity is determined as the modified
                                         duration of assets times assets divided by equity minus the modified
                                         duration of liabilities times liabilities divided by equity.
                                                                                                                                                                       33

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
 Cash flow                                                                                                        Risks
                        Metric           Description                                                                            Limitations of metric
 modelling                                                                                                        captured
                                         PV01 of equity is obtained by multiplying the modified duration of
                                         equity by the value of equity (i.e. assets minus liabilities) and
                                         dividing by 10 000 to arrive at the value change per basis point.
                                         The partial modified duration of an instrument for a specific time
                                         bucket is calculated as the modified duration above, except that not                    <U+F0B7> The metric only applies to marginal
                                         the entire yield curve is shifted in parallel, but only the yield curve                   interest rate changes. In the
                        <U+F0B7> Partial                                                                                 Gap risk
                                         segment corresponding to the time bucket. These partial measures                          presence of convexity, the metric
                          modified                                                                                (parallel and
                                         show the sensitivity of the market value of the banking book to a                         may underestimate the effect of
                          duration/p                                                                              non-parallel
                                         marginal shift of the yield curve in particular maturity segments. To                     larger interest rate movements.
                          artial PV01                                                                             risk)
                                         each time bucket’s partial measure a different magnitude of a shift                     <U+F0B7> It fails to measure the basis and
                                         can be applied, such that the effect of a change of the yield curve’s                     option risk.
                                         shape can be computed for the entire portfolio.
 Cash flows partially                    The change of NII is an earnings-based metric and measures the
 or fully conditional                    change of the net interest income over a particular time horizon
 on interest rate                        (usually 1-5 years) resulting from a sudden or gradual interest rate
 scenario (it is                         movement.                                                                Gap risk
 assumed that the                        The starting point is the mapping of all cash flows of interest rate     (parallel and
 timing of cash flows                    sensitive instruments to (granular) time buckets (or using the exact     non-
 of options, of         Earnings-        repricing dates of individual positions in more sophisticated            parallel),
 instruments with       based:           systems).                                                                basis risk
 embedded, explicit     Focus on                                                                                  and,           <U+F0B7> Sensitivity of the outcome to the
 options and – in       net interest     The base scenario for the calculations reflects the institution’s        provided all     modelling and behavioural
 more sophisticated     income (NII)     current corporate plan to project the volume, pricing and repricing      cash flows       assumptions
 approaches – of        component:       dates of future business transactions. The interest rates used to        are modelled   <U+F0B7> Complexity
 instruments of         <U+F0B7> Change of      calculate future cash flows in the base scenario are derived from        scenario
 which the maturity       NII            forward rates, appropriate spreads or market expected rates for          dependent,
 depends on clients’                     different instruments.                                                   also option
 behaviour, is                           In assessing the possible extent of NII changes, banks use               risk
 modelled                                assumptions and models to predict the path of interest rates, the
 conditional on the                      run-off of existing assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet items, and
 interest rate                           their potential replacement.
 scenario)
                                                                                                                                                                     34

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
 Cash flow                                                                                                       Risks
                        Metric           Description                                                                           Limitations of metric
 modelling                                                                                                       captured
                                         Earnings-based metrics can be differentiated according to the
                                         sophistication of projecting future cash flows: simple run-off models
                                         assume that existing assets and liabilities mature without
                                         replacement; constant balance sheet models assume that maturing
                                         assets and liabilities are replaced by identical instruments; while the
                                         most complex dynamic cash flow models reflect business responses
                                         to differing interest rate environments in the size and composition
                                         of the banking book.
                                         All earnings-based metrics can be used in a scenario or stochastic
                                         analysis. Earnings at risk (EaR) is an example of the latter, which
                                         measures the maximum NII change at a given confidence level.
                                                                                                                 Gap risk
                                         The change in EVE is the change in the net present value of all cash    (parallel and  <U+F0B7> Sensitivity of the outcome to the
                                         flows originating from banking book assets, liabilities and off-        non-             modelling and behavioural
                        Economic
                                         balance-sheet items resulting from a change in interest rates,          parallel),       assumptions
                        value:
                                         assuming that all banking book positions run off.                       basis risk     <U+F0B7> Stochastic metrics, which apply
                        Focus on
                                                                                                                 and, if all      distributional assumption, may fail to
                        economic
                                         The interest rate risk can be assessed by the <U+2206>EVE for specific         cash flows       capture tail risks and non-linearities
                        value of
                                         interest rate scenarios or by the distribution of <U+2206>EVE using Monte      are modelled   <U+F0B7> Full revaluation Monte Carlo
                        equity (EVE)
                                         Carlo or historical simulations. Economic value at risk (EVaR) is an    scenario         approaches are computationally
                        <U+F0B7> Change in
                                         example of the latter, which measures the maximum equity value          dependent,       demanding and may be difficult to
                          EVE
                                         change for a given confidence level.                                    also option      interpret (‘black-box’)
                                                                                                                 risk           <U+F0B7> Complexity
                                                                                                                                                                     35

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
Annex II – Sophistication matrix for
IRRBB measurement
Institutions should apply at least the level of sophistication in their risk measures shown in the table
below corresponding to their categorisation under the SREP Guidelines. Where the complexity or
scope of an institution’s business model is significant, the institution should, notwithstanding its
size, apply and implement risk measures that correspond to its specific business model and
adequately capture all sensitivities. All material sensitivities to the interest rate changes should be
adequately captured, including sensitivity to behavioural assumptions.
Institutions that offer financial products containing embedded optionalities should use
measurement systems that can adequately capture the dependence of options to interest rate
changes. Institutions with products that provide behavioural optionalities to clients should use
adequate conditional cash flow modelling approaches to quantify IRRBB with regard to the changes
in client behaviour that could occur under different interest rate stress scenarios.
The four categories referred to in the sophistication table below reflect the categorisation of
institutions laid down in the EBA SREP Guidelines. The different categories reflect different size,
structure and the nature, scope and complexity of activities of institutions; with Category 1
corresponding to the most sophisticated institutions.
                                                                                                     36

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
                                                    Indicative supervisory expectations regarding IRRBB metric and modelling depending
 IRRBB metric and modelling
                                                    on the institution’s sophistication category
 Cash flow modelling        Metric                  Category 4                 Category 3                  Category 2 institution       Category 1 institution
                                                    institution                institution
 Unconditional cash         Earnings-based:         Time buckets advised in the Basel Committee on         [Gap based on evolving size and composition of the
 flows (it is assumed       Gap analysis:           Banking Supervision’s Standards ‘Principles for        banking book due to business responses to differing
 that the timing of cash    <U+F0B7> Repricing gap         the Management and Supervision of Interest             interest rate environments. Including projected
 flows is independent of                            Rate Risk in the banking book’ from April 2016         commercial margins consistent with the interest rate
 the specific interest                              BCBS Standards).                                       scenario (see section 4.4, ‘Measurement’).]*
 rate scenario)
                                                                               Time buckets advised in                                  [Partial duration
                                                                                                           [Partial duration
                                                                               BCBS Standards,                                          computed per
                                                                                                           computed per instrument
                            Economic value:         Time buckets advised       application of partial                                   transaction and time
                                                                                                           type and time bucket.
                            Duration analysis:      in BCBS Standards.         duration weights.                                        bucket. Application of
                                                                                                           Application of standard
                                                    Application of             Application of standard                                  standard and other
                            <U+F0B7> Modified              standard shocks.           shocks and other interest
                                                                                                           and other interest rate
                                                                                                                                        interest rate shock and
                              duration/PV01 of                                                             shock and stress scenarios
                                                    Yield curve model          rate shock and stress                                    stress scenarios (see
                              equity                                                                       (see section 4.4,
                                                    with tenors                scenarios (see section 4.4,                              section 4.4,
                            <U+F0B7> Partial modified      corresponding to the       ‘Measurement’). Yield
                                                                                                           ‘Measurement’). Yield
                                                                                                                                        ‘Measurement’). Yield
                              duration/partial PV01                                                        curve model with tenors
                                                    time buckets.              curve model with tenors                                  curve model with
                                                                                                           corresponding to the time
                                                                               corresponding to the time                                tenors corresponding
                                                                                                           buckets.]*
                                                                               buckets.                                                 to the time buckets.]*
                                                                                                                                                                37

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
                                                   Indicative supervisory expectations regarding IRRBB metric and modelling depending
 IRRBB metric and modelling
                                                   on the institution’s sophistication category
 Cash flows partially or    Earnings-based:        Standard shocks          Standard and other        Standard and other         Comprehensive
 fully conditional on       <U+F0B7>Net interest income   applied to earnings      interest rate shock and   interest rate shock and    interest rate and stress
 interest rate scenario      (NII)                 under a constant         stress scenarios for the  stress scenarios for the   scenarios, combining
 (timing of cash flows of                          balance sheet. Based     yield curve (see          yield curve and between    shifts of yield curves
 options, of instruments                           on time buckets          section 4.4,              key market rates           with changes in basis
 with embedded, explicit                           advised in the BCBS      ‘Measurement’) applied to separately (see            and credit spreads, as
 options and – in more                             Standards.               earnings, reflecting      section 4.4,               well as changes in
 sophisticated                                                              constant balance sheet or ‘Measurement’) applied     customer behaviour,
 approaches – of                                                            simple assumptions about  to earnings projected by   are applied to
 instruments of which                                                       future business           business plan or constant  reforecast business
 the maturity depends                                                       development.              balance sheet. Including   volumes and earnings
 on clients’ behaviour, is                                                                            projected commercial       to measure the
 modelled conditional                                                                                 margins consistent with    difference compared
 on the interest rate                                                                                 the interest rate scenario with the underlying
 scenario)                                                                                            (see section 4.4,          business plan. Including
                                                                                                      ‘Measurement’).            projected commercial
                                                                                                                                 margins consistent with
                                                                                                                                 the interest rate
                                                                                                                                 scenario (see
                                                                                                                                 section 4.4,
                                                                                                                                 ‘Measurement’).
                                                                                                                                                          38

GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
                                                                      Indicative supervisory expectations regarding IRRBB metric and modelling depending
  IRRBB metric and modelling
                                                                      on the institution’s sophistication category
                                    Economic value:                   Application of standard and other interest rate shock        Measure computed on      Comprehensive interest
                                    <U+F0B7>Economic value of                and stress scenarios for the yield curve (see                transaction or cash flow rate and stress scenarios,
                                      equity (EVE)                    section 4.4, ‘Measurement’), using time buckets as           basis. Application of    combining shifts of yield
                                                                      advised in the BCBS Standards; yield curve tenors            standard and other       curves with changes in
                                                                      corresponding to the time buckets.                           interest rate shock and  basis and credit spreads,
                                                                                                                                   stress scenarios for the as well as changes in
                                                                                                                                   yield curve and between  customer behaviour.
                                                                                                                                   key market rates         Adequate tenors in all
                                                                                                                                   separately (see          yield curves. Full
                                                                                                                                   section 4.4,             optionality valuation.
                                                                                                                                   ‘Measurement’).          Scenario analysis
                                                                                                                                   Adequate tenors in yield complemented by Monte
                                                                                                                                   curves. Full optionality Carlo or historical
                                                                                                                                   valuation.               simulations on portfolios
                                                                                                                                                            with material optionality.
                                                                                                                                                            Daily updating of risk
                                                                                                                                                            factors.
* For category 1 and category 2 institutions, unconditional cash flow modelling approaches do not reflect supervisory expectations
                                                                                                                                                                                      39

 GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
Annex III – The standardised interest
rate shock scenarios
1. Interest rate shock scenarios and shock sizes
The six interest rate shock scenarios for measuring EVE under the standard EVE outlier test are:
(i)          parallel shock up;
(ii)         parallel shock down;
(iii)        steepener shock (short rates down and long rates up);
(iv)         flattener shock (short rates up and long rates down);
(v)          short rates shock up; and
(vi)         short rates shock down.
Institutions should apply the six above-mentioned interest rate shock scenarios to capture parallel
and non-parallel gap risks for EVE. These scenarios are applied to IRRBB exposures in each currency
separately for which the institution has material positions10.
The shock size for the six interest rate shock scenarios is based on historical interest rates. More
precisely, for capturing the local interest rate environment and cycle, a historical time series ranging
from 2000 to 201511 for various maturities is used to calculate the parallel, short-end (‘short’) and
long-end (‘long’) shocks for a given currency. However, deviations from the above-mentioned 16-
year period are permitted if they better reflect a particular jurisdiction’s idiosyncratic
circumstances.
Table 1 displays the values calculated for the parallel, short and long interest rate shocks for
selected currencies. The shocks capture the heterogeneous economic environments across the
jurisdictions. These are then used to calculate the shocks for different maturities of the yield curve
to create the interest rate shock scenarios as per the methodology explained below.
 Table 1. Specified size of interest rate shocks R         ¯ shocktype,c
                   ARS       AUD        BRL        CAD      CHF       CNY     EUR GBP HKD   IDR     INR
    Parallel       400        300       400        200      100        250    200 250 200   400     400
      Short        500        450       500        300      150        300    250 300 250   500     500
      Long         300        200       300        150      100        150    100 150 100   350     300
                   JPY       KRW       MXN         RUB      SAR        SEK    SGD TRY USD   ZAR
    Parallel       100        300       400        400      200        200    150 400 200   400
      Short        100        400       500        500      300        300    200 500 300   500
      Long         100        200       300        300      150        150    100 300 150   300
10 Material positions are defined in section 4.5, ‘Supervisory outlier test’.
11 The EBA may envisage a recalibration in due course.
                                                                                                      40

 GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
2. Calibration of other currencies
For calibrating interest rate shock sizes for further currencies, the following proceeding shall be
applied:
Step 1: Calculation of the daily average interest rate
Collect a 16-year time series of daily ‘risk-free’ interest rates for each currency <U+0001D450> for the maturities
3M, 6M, 1Y, 2Y, 5Y, 7Y, 10Y, 15Y and 20Y. Then, calculate the overall average interest rate for each
currency <U+0001D450> across all observations in the time series and for all maturities. The result is a single
measure per currency.
Step 2: Applying the global shock parameters
Apply the global shock parameters on the average interest rate, as per Table 2 below, to each
currency <U+0001D450>.
    Table 2. Baseline global interest rate shock parameters
    Parallel               <U+0001D6FC>¯<U+0001D45D><U+0001D44E><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D459><U+0001D459><U+0001D452><U+0001D459>                         60%
    Short                  <U+0001D6FC>¯<U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461>                            85%
    Long                   <U+0001D6FC>¯<U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454>                             40%
Applying the global shock parameters from Table 2 to the average interest rates calculated in step 1
results in revised interest rate shocks by currency for the different segments of the yield curve, i.e.
for the parallel, short and long shocks.
Step 3: Applying the caps and floors
The proposed interest rate shock calibration can lead to unrealistically low interest rate shocks for
some currencies and to unrealistically high interest rate shocks for others. In order to ensure a
minimum level of prudence and a level playing field, a floor of 100 bps as well as variable caps
(denoted as <U+2206><U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D457> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> )) are set as 500 bps for the short-term shock, 400 bps for the parallel shock
and 300 bps for the long-term shock, respectively.
The change in the ‘risk-free’ interest rate for shock scenario j and currency <U+0001D450>, at time bucket tenor
midpoint <U+0001D461><U+0001D458> can be defined as:
                                   |<U+2206><U+0001D445>~<U+0001D457>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> )| = max {100, min{|<U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D457>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> )|, <U+2206><U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D457> }}, 12
where <U+2206><U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D457> = {400, 500, 300}, for j = {parallel, short and long}, respectively. Applying the caps and
floors to the shocks calculated in step 2, and rounding to the nearest 50 bps, results in the final set
of interest rate shocks by currency as shown in Table 1.
Step 4: Adjustments for further currencies that are not shown in Table 1
As jurisdictions might have experienced major economic changes within the period 2000 to 2015,
the proceeding in steps 1 to 4 might not be adequate for some of them. This is particularly the case
if the interest rates during the first years of the period differ considerably from the interest rates in
the more recent years.
For currencies that are not mentioned in Table 1, the time series to be used to calculate the average
interest rate as per step 1 is determined using the following principle: If the average interest rate
calculated as per step 1 for the period 2000 to 2006 is greater than 700 bps, then data from the
12 In the case of rotation shock scenarios, <U+2206><U+0001D445>~<U+0001D457>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461>1 ) cannot exceed 500 bps, and <U+2206><U+0001D445>~<U+0001D457>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D43E> ) cannot exceed 300 bps,
whereby <U+0001D461>1 denotes the time bucket with the lowest maturity and <U+0001D461><U+0001D43E> the time bucket with the highest maturity.
                                                                                                                    41

 GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
most recent 10 years (i.e. 2007 to 2016) or until when data is available shall be used; otherwise the
full time series of data from 2000 to 2015 shall be used.
Using this principle allows us to identify high interest rate environments and periods of significant
structural change before the financial crisis. Further, this principle aims at finding those currencies
that exceed the cap (700 bps · 0.6 = 420 bps > 400 bps) in the first years of the period considered
and fosters a stronger consideration of more recent observed interest rates.
Table 3 shows the results of applying steps 1 to 4 on EU currencies that are not covered in Table 1.
Interest rate shock sizes for other currencies can be similarly retrieved by applying the methodology
outlined in this section.
  Table 3. Specified size of interest rate shocks R        ¯ shocktype,c for
  additional EU currencies
                     BGN        CZK       DKK      HRK         HUF        PLN      RON
      Parallel        250       200       200      250         300        250       350
       Short          350       250       250      400         450        350       500
       Long           150       100       150      200         200        150       250
3. Parameterisation of the standardised interest rate shock scenarios
Given for each currency c the specified size of the parallel, short and long instantaneous shocks to
the ‘risk-free’ interest rate, the following parameterisations of the six interest rate shock scenarios
should be applied:
(i)           Parallel shock for currency c: A constant parallel shock up or down across all time buckets:
                                               <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D45D><U+0001D44E><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D459><U+0001D459><U+0001D452><U+0001D459>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = ± <U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D45D><U+0001D44E><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D459><U+0001D459><U+0001D452><U+0001D459>,<U+0001D450>
(ii)          Short rate shock for currency c: Shock up or down that is greatest at the shortest tenor
                                                                                                    -<U+0001D461>k
              midpoint. That shock, through the shaping scalar <U+0001D446><U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = <U+0001D452> <U+0001D465> , where <U+0001D465> = 4 ,
              diminishes toward zero at the tenor of the longest point on the term structure13. Where tk
              is the midpoint (in time) of the kth bucket and tK is the midpoint (in time) of the last bucket
              <U+0001D43E>):
                                                                                                -<U+0001D461>k
                          <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = ± <U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461>,<U+0001D450> · <U+0001D446><U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = ± <U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461>,<U+0001D450> · <U+0001D452>         <U+0001D465>
(iii)         Long rate shock for currency c: This shock is only applied to rotational shocks. The shock is
              greatest at the longest tenor midpoint and is related to the short scaling factor as
              <U+0001D446><U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = 1 - <U+0001D446><U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ):
                                                                                                 -<U+0001D461>k
                         <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = ± <U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454>,<U+0001D450> · <U+0001D446><U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = ± <U+0001D445>¯<U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454>,<U+0001D450> · (1 - <U+0001D452>          <U+0001D465> )
(iv)          Rotation shocks for currency c: Involving rotations to the term structure (i.e. for steepeners
              and flatteners) of the interest rates, whereby both the long and short rates are shocked
              and the shift in interest rates at each tenor midpoint is obtained by applying the following
              formulas to those shocks:
                    <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D460><U+0001D461><U+0001D452><U+0001D452><U+0001D45D><U+0001D452><U+0001D45B><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = - 0.65 · | <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) | +0.9 · | <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) |;
                                                       -<U+0001D461>k
13 The value of <U+0001D465> in the denominator of the function <U+0001D452>  <U+0001D465>  controls the rate of decay of the shock.
                                                                                                           42

 GUIDELINES ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
ARISING FROM NON-TRADING BOOK ACTIVITIES
                   <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D453><U+0001D459><U+0001D44E><U+0001D461><U+0001D461><U+0001D452><U+0001D45B><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = +0.8 · | <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) | -0.6 · | <U+2206><U+0001D445><U+0001D459><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B><U+0001D454>,<U+0001D450> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) |.
Examples:
Short rate shock: Assume the bank uses <U+0001D43E> = 19 time bands and tK = 25 years (the midpoint (in time)
of the longest tenor bucket <U+0001D43E>), where <U+0001D461><U+0001D458> is the midpoint (in time) for bucket k. For <U+0001D458> = 10 with tk
                                                                                          -3.5
= 3.5 years, the scalar adjustment for the short shock would be: <U+0001D446><U+0001D460>h<U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D461> (<U+0001D461><U+0001D458> ) = <U+0001D452> 4 = 0.417. Banks
would multiply this by the value of the short rate shock to obtain the amount to be added or
subtracted from the yield curve at that tenor point. If the short rate shock was +250 bps, the
increase in the yield curve at tk = 3.5 years would be 104.2 bps.
Steepener: Assume the same point on the yield curve as above, tk = 3.5 years. If the absolute value
of the short rate shock was 250 bps and the absolute value of the long rate shock was 100 bps (as
for the euro), the change in the yield curve at tk = 3.5 years would be the sum of the effect of the
short rate shock plus the effect of the long rate shock in basis points: - 0.65 · 250 bps · 0.417 +
0.9 · 100 bps · (1 - 0.417) = -15.3 bps.
Flattener: The corresponding change in the yield curve for the shocks in the example above at tk =
3.5 years would be: + 0.8 · 250 bps · 0.417 - 0.6 · 100 bps · (1 - 0.417) = 48.4 bps.
                                                                                                  43

