FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
EBA/GL/2018/01
12/01/2018
Final report
Guidelines on uniform disclosures under Article 473a of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013 as regards the transitional period for mitigating
the impact of the introduction of IFRS 9 on own funds

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Contents
1. Executive summary                                                                            3
2. Background and rationale                                                                     4
3. Guidelines                                                                                   5
1.      Compliance and reporting obligations                                                    7
2.      Subject matter, scope and definitions                                                   8
3.      Format                                                                                  9
4.      General requirements for disclosure                                                   10
Annex I ñTemplate on the comparison of institutionsí own funds and capital and leverage ratios with
and without the application of transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs         11
4. Accompanying documents                                                                     14
4.1     Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment                                         14
4.2     Feedback on the public consultation                                                   18
                                                                                                   2

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
1. Executive summary
On 22 November 2016, the International Financial Reporting Standard 9, ëFinancial Instrumentsí
(IFRS 9), was adopted in the EU to replace the previous accounting standard, i.e. International
Accounting Standard 39, ëFinancial Instruments: Recognition and Measurementí (IAS 39). On
12 December 2017, the EU adopted Regulation (EU) No 2017/2395 of the European Parliament and
of the Council amending Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 as regards transitional arrangements for
mitigating the impact of the introduction of IFRS 9 on own funds and for the large exposures
treatment of certain public sector exposures denominated in the domestic currency of any Member
State (the ënew Regulationí). The new Regulation inserts a new Article 473a in the CRR, which
includes provisions on transitional arrangements for the introduction of IFRS 9 and IFRS 9-like
expected credit loss models (analogous ECLs 1), in order to mitigate the impact of the impairment
requirements resulting from IFRS 9 on capital and leverage ratios.
Article 473a of the CRR requires institutions that apply transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 and
analogous ECLs to disclose the effect of these transitional arrangements on own funds, risk-based-
capital ratio and leverage ratio. In particular, these institutions are required to disclose the amount
of own funds, the amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital, the amount of Tier 1 capital, the
Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, the Tier 1 capital ratio, the total capital ratio and the leverage
ratio with and without the application of the transitional arrangements.
Finally, paragraph 10 of Article 473a of the CRR also includes a mandate for the EBA to issue
guidelines on disclosure requirements in relation to transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or
analogous ECLs. It is on the basis of this mandate that the EBA has drafted these guidelines, which
specify a uniform disclosure format for the institutionsí disclosure requirements on transitional
arrangements for IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs, with the aim of achieving consistent and comparable
disclosure among institutions.
Next steps
The guidelines will be published on the EBA website and translated into the official EU languages. The
deadline for competent authorities to report whether they comply with the guidelines will be 2
months after the publication of the guidelines.
1
  ëAnalogous ECLsí refers to expected credit loss models that are the same as those used in accounting standards adopted in
accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 6(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002.
                                                                                                                          3

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
2. Background and rationale
On the basis of the ënew Regulationí, which inserts a new article, Article 473a, into the CRR,
institutions referred to in this Article will have the following options: they can phase in the impact of
the implementation of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs on capital and leverage ratios or they can recognise
the full impact of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs on capital and leverage ratios from 1 January 2018 or
before the end of the transitional period. In order to achieve consistency in institutionsí Pillar 3
disclosures regarding capital and leverage ratios, the EU institutions have decided that proper,
uniform and consistent disclosure of the impact of transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or analogous
ECLs on these prudential metrics will be key during the transitional period.
Therefore, new Article 473a of the CRR includes the requirement for institutions subject to IFRS 9 or
an analogous ECLs framework and which apply the corresponding transitional arrangements to
disclose, together with their actual own funds and their actual capital and leverage ratios, the value
of these prudential metrics on an IFRS 9/analogous ECLs fully loaded basis, i.e. as if the transitional
arrangements had not been applied. This disclosure is required in addition to the information that
institutions are required to disclose under Part Eight of the CRR. The same Article also includes, in
paragraph 10, a mandate for the EBA to issue guidelines on these disclosure requirements. These
guidelines specify a uniform disclosure format to be applied by institutions in order to increase the
consistency and comparability of the information disclosed during the transitional period.
In specifying the uniform disclosure format to be applied by institutions for the abovementioned
purpose, the EBA has taken into account developments at the international level, with a view to
implementing the new CRR requirement in a manner that is consistent with international standards
and allows international comparisons. Therefore, these guidelines take into account the standard
issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) on 29 March 2017 on ìPillar 3
disclosure requirements ñ consolidated and enhanced frameworkî. 2 This standard includes a
disclosure template, with an implementation date of 1 January 2018, that provides users with
information on the impact of the transitional arrangements for the implementation of expected
credit loss accounting on banksí regulatory capital and leverage ratios.
2
  Which can be found here: http://www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d400.htm
                                                                                                        4

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
3. Guidelines
                                                    5

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
EBA/GL/2018/01
12/01/2018
Guidelines
on uniform disclosures under
Article 473a of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013 as regards transitional
arrangements for mitigating the impact
of the introduction of IFRS 9 on own
funds
                                                    6

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
1. Compliance and reporting
obligations
Status of these guidelines
1. This document contains guidelines issued pursuant to Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
      No 1093/2010. 3 In accordance with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent
      authorities and financial institutions must make every effort to comply with the guidelines.
2. Guidelines set out the EBAís view of appropriate supervisory practices within the European
      System of Financial Supervision or of how Union law should be applied in a particular area.
      Competent authorities as defined in Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 to whom
      guidelines apply should comply by incorporating them into their practices as appropriate (e.g.
      by amending their legal framework or their supervisory processes), including where guidelines
      are directed primarily at institutions.
Reporting requirements
3. In accordance with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent authorities
      must notify the EBA that they comply or intend to comply with these guidelines, or otherwise
      give reasons for non-compliance, by ([dd.mm.yyyy]). In the absence of any notification by this
      deadline, competent authorities will be considered by the EBA to be non-compliant.
      Notifications should be sent by submitting the form available on the EBA website to
      compliance@eba.europa.eu with the reference ëEBA/GL/2018/01í. Notifications should be
      submitted by persons with appropriate authority to report compliance on behalf of their
      competent authorities. Any change in the status of compliance must also be reported to the
      EBA.
4. Notifications will be published on the EBA website, in line with Article 16(3).
3
  Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing
Commission Decision 2009/78/EC, (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p.12).
                                                                                                              7

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
2. Subject matter, scope and definitions
Subject matter
5. These guidelines specify the uniform disclosure format in accordance with which the
      disclosures required under Article 473a of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (the ëCRRí) should be
      made.
Scope of application
6. These guidelines apply to institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 473a of the CRR
      that are subject to all or part of the disclosure requirements specified in Part Eight of the CRR
      in accordance with Articles 6, 10 and 13 of the CRR.
7. These guidelines apply during the transitional period referred to in paragraph 6 of
      Article 473a of the CRR.
Addressees
8. These guidelines are addressed to competent authorities as defined in points (i) to (ii) of
      Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 and to financial institutions as defined in
      Article 4(1) of Regulation No 1093/2010.
Definitions
9. Unless otherwise specified, terms used and defined in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 have the
      same meaning in the guidelines.
10. ëAnalogous ECLsí refers to the expected credit loss models that are the same as those used in
      accounting standards adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 6(2) of
      Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002.
Date of application
11. These guidelines apply from 20 March 2018 until the end of the transitional period referred to
      in paragraph 6 of Article 473a of the CRR.
                                                                                                      8

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
3. Format
12. Institutions that choose to apply Article 473a of the CRR should complete the quantitative
      template contained in Annex I, in accordance with the instructions included therein. Those
      institutions among those mentioned in paragraph 1 of Article 473a that choose not to apply
      Article 473a should disclose the narrative commentary indicated in Annex I, in accordance
      with the instructions included therein.
                                                                                               9

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4. General requirements for disclosure
13. The EBA Guidelines on disclosure requirements under Part Eight of Regulation (EU)
      No 575/2013 (EBA/GL/2016/11) are applicable, where relevant, to the uniform disclosure
      format specified in the current guidelines.
                                                                                          10

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Annex I ñTemplate on the comparison of
institutionsí own funds and capital and
leverage ratios with and without the
application of transitional arrangements
for IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs
Template IFRS 9-FL: Comparison of institutionsí own funds and capital and leverage
ratios with and without the application of transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or
analogous ECLs
  Purpose: Provide a comparison of the institutionsí own funds, Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital, risk-weighted
  assets, Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, total capital ratio and leverage ratio with and without the
  application of transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs. Only the transitional arrangements arising from the
  implementation of the IFRS 9 and analogous ECLS are considered in this template.
  Scope of application: The quantitative template is mandatory for all institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 473a
  that, pursuant to the first subparagraph of paragraph 9 of the same Article, choose to apply Article 473a of the CRR and are
  subject to all or part of the disclosure requirements specified in Part Eight of the CRR, during the transitional period specified
  in paragraph 6 of the same Article.
  Those institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 473a that are subject to all or part of the disclosure requirements
  specified in Part Eight of the CRR but, pursuant to the first subparagraph of paragraph 9 of the same Article, choose not to
  apply the transitional arrangements specified in Article 473a should instead disclose a narrative commentary explaining that
  they are not applying the transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs, any changes on that decision over the time
  and that their own funds, capital and leverage ratios already reflect the full impact of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs.
  Content: Regulatory own funds, risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio compared with the same metrics as if they were
  not subject to the transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs. Institutions should disclose each metricís value at
  the end of the reporting period.
  Frequency: Institutions should disclose this information with the frequency set in paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of
  EBA GL/2014/14 as amended by EBA GL/2016/11 for the disclosure of information on own funds (paragraph 25.a), risk-
  weighted assets (paragraph 25.b.i.) and leverage ratio (paragraph 25.c).
  Format: A fixed format for the quantitative template is mandatory for institutions that apply the IFRS 9 transitional
  arrangements. For institutions that do not apply the transitional arrangements, the format of the narrative commentary is
  flexible.
  Accompanying narrative: Institutions applying the transitional arrangements should provide a narrative accompanying the
  quantitative template that explains the key elements of the transitional arrangements they use. Pursuant to the
  second subparagraph of paragraph 9 of Article 473a of the CRR, institutions should, in particular, provide explanations of all
  their choices regarding the options included in the same paragraph, including whether they are applying paragraph 4 of
  Article 473a or not, and on any changes on the application of these options. Institutions should also provide explanations of
  the changes to the prudential metrics included in the template due to the application of the transitional arrangements for
  IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs, where these changes are material.
                                                                                                                                  11

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                               Quantitative template
                                                                                             a            b            c           d         e
                                                                                             T          T-1          T-2          T-3       T-4
            Available capital (amounts)
     1      Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital
     2      Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs
            transitional arrangements had not been applied
     3      Tier 1 capital
     4      Tier 1 capital as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional
            arrangements had not been applied
     5      Total capital
     6      Total capital as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional
            arrangements had not been applied
            Risk-weighted assets (amounts)
     7      Total risk-weighted assets
     8      Total risk-weighted assets as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs
            transitional arrangements had not been applied
            Capital ratios
     9      Common Equity Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)
    10      Common Equity Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)
            as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements had not
            been applied
    11      Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)
    12      Tier 1 (as a percentage of risk exposure amount) as if IFRS 9 or
            analogous ECLs transitional arrangements had not been applied
    13      Total capital (as a percentage of risk exposure amount)
    14      Total capital (as a percentage of risk exposure amount) as if IFRS 9
            or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements had not been applied
            Leverage ratio
    15      Leverage ratio total exposure measure
    16      Leverage ratio
    17      Leverage ratio as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional
            arrangements had not been applied
                                                                 Instructions
  Row
              Explanation
  Number
              Amount of CET1 capital in accordance with the amount disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure of own funds
  1                         4
              requirements (row 29 of the íOwn funds disclosure templateí)
              Amount of CET1 capital as if the amount of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in accordance with
  2
              Article 473a of the CRR were not applied
              Amount of Tier 1 capital in accordance with the amount disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure of own funds
  3                         4
              requirements     (row 45 of the íOwn funds disclosure templateí)
              Amount of Tier 1 capital as if the amount of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in accordance
  4
              with Article 473a of the CRR were not applied.
              Amount of total capital in accordance with the amount disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure of own funds
  5                         4
              requirements (row 59 of the íOwn funds disclosure templateí)
  6           Amount of total capital as if the amount of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in accordance with
4
  COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 1423/2013 of 20 December 2013 laying down implementing
technical standards with regard to disclosure of own funds requirements for institutions according to Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 355, 31.12.2013, 60).
                                                                                                                                  12

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
  Row
              Explanation
  Number
              Article 473a of the CRR were not applied
              Amount of total risk-weighted assets in accordance with the amount disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure
  7                                         4
              of own funds requirements (row 60 of the íOwn funds disclosure templateí)
              Amount of total risk-weighted assets as if the amount of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in
  8
              accordance with Article 473a of the CRR were not applied
              CET1 capital ratio in accordance with the value disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure of own funds
  9                          4
              requirements (row 61 of the íOwn funds disclosure templateí)
              CET1 capital ratio as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in accordance with Article 473a of the
  10                                  5
              CRR were not applied
              Tier 1 capital ratio in accordance with the value disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure of own funds
  11                         4
              requirements (row 62 of the ëOwn funds disclosure templateí)
              Tier 1 capital ratio as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in accordance with Article 473a of the
  12                                  5
              CRR were not applied
              Total capital ratio in accordance with the value disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure of own funds
  13                         4
              requirements (row 63 of the ëOwn funds disclosure templateí)
              Total capital ratio as if IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in accordance with Article 473a of the
  14                                  5
              CRR were not applied
              Leverage ratio total exposure measure in accordance with the amount disclosed by institutions following the ITS on
  15                                        6
              disclosure of leverage ratio (row 21 of the table ëLRCom: Leverage ratio common disclosureí)
                                                                                                                                                6
              Leverage ratio in accordance with the value disclosed by institutions following the ITS on disclosure of leverage ratio
  16
              (row 22 of the table ëLRCom: Leverage ratio common disclosureí)
              Leverage ratio calculated as if as if the amount of IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs transitional arrangements calculated in
  17                                                                       5
              accordance with Article 473a of the CRR were not applied
              Reporting periods
              Reporting periods T, T-1, T-2, T-3 and T-4 are defined as quarterly periods. Institutions should disclose the dates
              corresponding to the reporting periods.
              Institutions disclosing this template on a quarterly basis should provide data for periods T, T-1, T-2, T-3 and T-4; institutions
              disclosing this template on a semi-annual basis should provide data for periods T, T-2 and T-4; and institutions disclosing this
              template on an annual basis should provide data for periods T and T-4.
              The disclosure of data for previous periods is not required when data are disclosed for the first time. Information on previous
              periods is required only when the previous periods are later than the starting date of their first financial year starting on or
              after 1 January 2018.
5
  When disclosing this ratio, institutions should consider those transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs
that have an impact both on the numerator and on the denominator.
6
  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/200 of 15 February 2016 laying down implementing technical
standards with regard to disclosure of the leverage ratio for institutions, according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of
the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 39, 16.2.2016, p. 5).
                                                                                                                                       13

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4. Accompanying documents
4.1 Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment
Regulation (EU) No 2017/2395 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 as regards transitional arrangements for mitigating the impact of
the introduction of IFRS 9 on own funds and for the large exposures treatment of certain public
sector exposures denominated in the domestic currencies of any Member State introduces a new
article, Article 473a into the CRR, which mandates the EBA to issue guidelines on the disclosure
requirements in relation to IFRS 9 transitional arrangements.
As per Article 16(2) of the EBA Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European
Parliament and of the Council), any guidelines developed by the EBA shall be accompanied by an
assessment annex that analyses ëthe potential related costs and benefitsí. This annex should
provide the reader with an overview of the findings as regards the problem identification, the
options identified to remove the problem and their potential impacts.
This section presents an impact assessment and cost-benefit analysis of the policy options taken
into account in drafting these guidelines. Given the nature of the study, the assessment is
high level and qualitative in nature.
A. Problem identification
The primary problems that the current guidelines aim to address are the potential asymmetry of
information on IFRS 9 transitional arrangements between information available to market
participants and information available internally to institutions, and the possible inconsistencies
and variations in the institutionsí disclosures related to the impact of IFRS 9 transitional
arrangements on their risk-based capital ratios and the leverage ratio during the phase-in period.
Asymmetric information and a lack of comparability of information by market participants impair
the functioning of market discipline.
Furthermore, the BCBS issued, in March 2017, the standard íPillar 3 disclosure requirements ñ
consolidated and enhanced frameworkí. This includes a disclosure template, with an
implementation date of 1 January 2018, that provides users with information on the impact of the
transitional arrangements for the implementation of expected credit loss accounting on banksí
regulatory capital and leverage ratios. Hence the current regulatory framework is not in line with
the recent amendments at the BCBS level and in practice may lead to inconsistent
implementation of the standards within the EU.
                                                                                                14

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
B. Policy objectives
The main objective of the guidelines is to increase the consistency and comparability of
information disclosed by EU institutions regarding the impact of the IFRS 9 transitional
arrangements on their own funds and capital and leverage ratios during the transition to the full
implementation of the IFRS 9 framework.
The guidelines also aim to help EU institutions in implementing the new BCBS Pillar 3
requirements regarding the impact of the transitional arrangements for the implementation of
expected credit loss accounting on banksí regulatory capital and leverage ratios.
These guidelines address the problem of asymmetric information, increase the comparability of
EU institutionsí disclosures and promote the alignment of the EU disclosure requirements with
the BCBS Pillar 3 framework. The ultimate general objective of the guidelines is to strengthen
market discipline.
C. Baseline scenario
Institutions within the scope of these guidelines are already subject to disclosure requirements on
available own funds, risk weighted assets (RWA), leverage ratio risk exposure amount, regulatory
capital ratios and the leverage ratio. These institutions already disclose the aforementioned
information on a regular basis.
In addition, those institutions that choose to apply the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements in
accordance with Article 473a of the CRR need to estimate the adjustments to own funds,
regulatory capital ratios and the leverage ratio arising from the application of the IFRS 9
transitional arrangements. Finally, institutions applying the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements are
required to report, as part of the reporting requirements included in the EU supervisory reporting
framework, 7 the amount of the adjustments to own funds and RWA arising from the application
of IFRS 9 transitional arrangements.
Institutions are therefore already required to disclose information on the actual value of the
prudential metrics to which these guidelines refer and are required to estimate and report to the
competent authorities the value of the adjustments to be applied to the same prudential metrics
if the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements are implemented.
D. Options considered: assessment of the options and the preferred option(s)
During the development of the current guidelines, the following policy options were considered:
7
  COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 680/2014 of 16 April 2014 laying down implementing technical
standards with regard to supervisory reporting of institutions according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the
European Parliament and of the Council.
                                                                                                           15

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
a.        Scope of the template: restricted to the mandate of the Commission vs. expanded
          in line with the BCBS framework
The BCBS framework includes information on the impact on regulatory capital and the leverage
ratio of the transitional arrangements for the implementation of expected credit loss accounting
in a key metrics template, which also includes other metrics that are considered key for users of
information but that are not affected by the transitional arrangements (e.g. the liquidity coverage
ratio and the net stable funding ratio).
During the preparation of the current guidelines, the possibility of adding these additional metrics
to template IFRS 9-FL was discussed. EU institutions are required to disclose these additional
metrics under Part Eight of the CRR, using separate disclosure templates, and the addition of
these metrics would allow even closer alignment with the BCBS standard. Nevertheless, the
mandate to the EBA to issue guidelines included in Article 473a of the CRR refers strictly to the
disclosure requirements under the same Article; the additional metrics included in the BCBS
standard are already implemented at EU level, albeit in separate templates. Therefore, it was
decided to stick strictly to the mandate included in Article 473a of the CRR when developing
template IFRS 9-FL.
b.        Time dimension: reporting data as of time T and T-1 vs. reporting longer time-
          series data
During the development of template IFRS 9-FL, there was discussion of whether institutions
should be required to disclose the relevant information for period T and T-1 or whether the time
series should be extended, including T-2, T-3 and T-4, in line with the BCBS standard. Given that
institutions will be required to disclose the information on a quarterly, semi-annual or annual
basis, depending on the significance of the institution, in accordance with the criteria set in EBA
GL/2014/14, it was decided that for institutions disclosing the information on a quarterly basis the
time series required should be T, T-1, T-2, T-3 and T-4; for institutions disclosing the information
on a semi-annual basis the time series required should be T, T-2 and T-4; and for institutions
disclosing the information on an annual basis the time series requested should be T and T-4. This
way, all institutions will disclose the data at the reference data and the evolution of the data
during the previous year.
E. Cost-benefit analysis
The information that institutions are asked to disclose under template IFRS 9-FL of the current
guidelines is fully available to them. Institutions are already required to disclose the information
on the transitional value of the prudential metrics included in this template and are also required
to estimate and report to the competent authorities the value of the adjustments to be applied to
the same prudential metrics if the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements are implemented.
In addition, the policy choices agreed during the development of the guidelines simplify the
information that institutions are asked to disclose.
                                                                                                  16

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
For these reasons, the marginal cost and impact of the implementation of the current draft
guidelines by institutions is expected to be negligible. The net benefit is expected to be positive
when the marginal costs of implementation of the draft guidelines are compared with the
benefits that the current guidelines are expected to achieve, in terms of improved symmetry of
information between market participants and institutions, consistency and comparability of the
information available to market participants and further fostering of market discipline. The
benefits arising from the guidelines are hence expected to notably exceed the marginal costs for
institutions.
                                                                                                 17

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4.2 Feedback on the public consultation
The EBA publicly consulted on the guidelines contained in this paper.
The consultation period lasted for 2 months and ended on 13 September 2017. Five responses
were received, all of which five were published on the EBA website.
This paper presents a summary of the key points and other comments arising from the
consultation, the analysis and discussion triggered by these comments and the actions taken to
address them if deemed necessary.
In many cases, several industry bodies made similar comments or the same body repeated its
comments in response to different questions. In such cases, the comments and the EBAís analysis
are included in the section of this paper where the EBA considers them most appropriate.
Changes to the draft guidelines have been incorporated as a result of the responses received
during the public consultation.
Summary of key issues and the EBAís response
The EBA included in the consultation paper a question on the possibility of adding a row to the
disclosure template with quantitative information on an institutionís RWA as if the IFRS 9
transitional arrangements had not been applied. Following the answers received and the EBAís
analysis, according to which this information would indeed contribute to a better and more
complete picture of the impact of IFRS 9 transitional arrangements on institutions capital ratios
without creating an additional burden for banks, this row has been added to the template.
Other changes applied to the guidelines compared with the version published for consultation,
following the comments received, include:
<U+F0A7>         The requirement to disclose the reasons behind an institutionsí decision not to apply the
          IFRS 9 transitional arrangements, where relevant, has been dropped.
<U+F0A7>         The accompanying narrative to the quantitative template has been further elaborated in
          line with paragraph 9 of Article 473a.
<U+F0A7>         The instructions regarding the reference date for the reporting of data corresponding to
          previous periods have been adjusted in order to achieve consistency among institutions,
          regardless of the frequency with which they are required to report the template.
                                                                                                  18

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Summary of responses to the consultation and the EBAís analysis
                                                                                                                                               Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                        EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                               the proposals
Responses to questions in Consultation Paper EBA-CP-2017-11
Question 1: Could you provide your views on whether adding RWA on an IFRS 9 fully loaded basis to the quantitative disclosure template in Annex I would provide
more clarity to the users and would ensure a more consistent and comparable disclosure by institutions compared with the current proposal to disclose only the
actual figure of RWA?
Disclosure of RWA on an IFRS 9       Most members believe it would be beneficial to
fully loaded basis                   disclose RWA on an IFRS 9 fully loaded basis to
                                     provide more clarity to users, particularly as RWA
                                     will differ on a fully loaded basis. Furthermore,
                                     most members do not perceive this disclosure as
                                     requiring substantial additional resource or effort,
                                     and therefore the benefit of the disclosure would
                                     outweigh the associated cost of implementation.                                                           A row has been
                                                                                                                                               added      to     the
Disclosure of RWA on an IFRS 9       It may be that adding RWA on an IFRS 9 fully         The EBA agrees that disclosing the information on    disclosure template
fully loaded basis                   loaded basis to the template would provide more      RWA on an IFRS 9 fully loaded basis would provide    with the information
                                     clarity to its users. However, considering the fact  clarity and a more complete picture of the impact of on     íTotal   risk-
                                     that institutions applying the IFRS 9 transition     the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements on capital      weighted assets as if
                                     arrangement are already expected to supplement       ratios.                                              IFRS 9 transitional
                                     the template with a narrative commentary to                                                               arrangements had
                                     explain any significant changes to RWA that are                                                           not been appliedí
                                     due to the application of the transitional
                                     arrangement, there is no need to disclose RWA on
                                     an IFRS 9 fully loaded basis.
                                     Furthermore, the draft EBA guidelines take into
                                     account the disclosure Template KM1 issued by
                                     the BCBS on 29 March 2017 (Pillar 3 disclosure
                                     requirementsì consolidated and enhanced
                                                                                                                                                                  19

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                         Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                          EBA analysis
                                                                                                         the proposals
                                     framework) which aims to provide users with
                                     information on the impact of transitional
                                     arrangements on institutionsí regulatory capital
                                     and leverage ratios. Since even BCBS Template
                                     KM1 requires only the disclosure of RWA on a
                                     transitional basis, it is suggested that the regulator
                                     should carefully assess if this additional disclosure
                                     requirement is really necessary.
Disclosure of RWA on an IFRS 9       Given the uncertainty about the long-term
fully loaded basis                   regulatory treatment of provisions and the revision
                                     of the standardised approach for credit risk in the
                                     context of the Basel III finalisation, we believe that
                                     the proposed disclosure could create confusion
                                     and mislead stakeholders. Currently, both the RWA
                                     and the interaction between the accounting and
                                     the regulatory frameworks are being reviewed by
                                     the BCBS. The information to be disclosed will
                                     therefore change when the revision is finalized.
                                     This regulatory uncertainty about the information
                                     to be disclosed could therefore lead markets to
                                     draw inaccurate conclusions and bring about
                                     confusion instead of clarity.
                                     The disclosure of changes caused by applying the
                                     IFRS 9 transitional arrangements should generally
                                     be limited to material items and to ratios of
                                     relevance to capital markets and the public. It
                                     should be kept in mind that the transitional
                                     arrangements in the CRR and under Basel III
                                     concerning the eligibility of AT1 and Tier 2 capital
                                     instruments will remain relevant beyond
                                                                                                                       20

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                         Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                          EBA analysis
                                                                                                         the proposals
                                     1 January 2018 and that they have already resulted
                                     in differences in Tier 1, TC, leverage ratio and other
                                     relevant metrics.
Disclosure of RWA on an IFRS 9       While we understand the need to disclose
fully loaded basis                   information regarding the impact of transitional
                                     arrangements for the implementation of expected
                                     loss accounting on banks' regulatory capital and
                                     leverage ratios, we question the relevance of
                                     adding granular information related to the impact
                                     of IFRS 9 on RWA.
                                     Currently, RWA are going to evolve following
                                     coming changes initiated by the BCBS and
                                     following revision of the CRR/CRD. Moreover, the
                                     long-term regulatory treatment of provisions is
                                     also under review. So these forthcoming legislative
                                     or regulatory changes will modify the RWA of a
                                     same risk exposure during the transitional period.
                                     Thus, it will become more difficult to provide
                                     consistent and comparable RWAs information.
                                     The development of business activities brings
                                     natural changes in RWA that would be
                                     burdensome to isolate and distinguish, without
                                     undue costs and efforts, from the impact of IFRS 9
                                     transitional arrangements on RWA.
                                     Furthermore, requiring additional explanations of
                                     the changes to RWA would add complexity to the
                                     calculation of the metrics, whereas the proposed
                                     draft Article 473a, paragraph 7, of the CRR
                                     suggests a simplified way of calculating the credit
                                                                                                                       21

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                       Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                        EBA analysis
                                                                                                       the proposals
                                     risk adjustments applied to exposures.
                                     In addition, the EBA draft guidelines refer to the
                                     Pillar 3 disclosure standards ìconsolidated and
                                     enhanced frameworkîù issued by the BCBS on
                                     March 2017. However, the BCBS standard requires
                                     only quantitative information on the impact of the
                                     IFRS 9 transitional arrangements, excluding
                                     narrative explanations of changes and significant
                                     events. Providing the amounts of the transitional
                                     adjustments to own funds to users of information
                                     (i.e. investors and shareholders) is far more
                                     relevant than providing greater granularity in the
                                     information on transitional adjustments on RWA.
                                     Accordingly, we consider that narrative and
                                     quantitative information related to explanations of
                                     the changes to RWA that are due to the IFRS 9
                                     transitional arrangements should be deleted (see
                                     EBA/CP/2017/11, page 12, accompanying the
                                     narrative: ëInstitutions should also provide
                                     explanations of the changes to RWA and leverage
                                     exposure measure that are due to the application
                                     of the IFRS 9/analogous ECLs transitional
                                     arrangements, where these changes are material)
Disclosure of RWA on an IFRS 9       Adding RWA on an IFRS 9 fully loaded basis would
fully loaded basis                   provide more clarity. However, it could easily be
                                     reversely computed from capital ratios and capital
                                     position stated on an IFRS 9 fully loaded basis (see
                                     comment on question 2).
                                                                                                                     22

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                                                              Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                         EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                              the proposals
Disclosure of RWA on an IFRS 9       We agree that the addition of RWA on an IFRS 9
fully loaded basis                   fully loaded basis to the quantitative disclosure
                                     template in Annex I would provide more clarity
                                     and contribute to ensuring more consistent and
                                     comparable disclosures by institutions and would
                                     therefore be beneficial to users of the Pillar 3
                                     disclosure documents.
Question 2: Do you agree with the overall content of these guidelines and with the template proposed? In case of disagreement, please outline alternatives that
would help to achieve the purpose of the guidelines.
Alignment       of     the    row    The format of the template would be better if it
numbering in the template            followed the row numbering of the Basel KM1           The alignment of the numbering of the rows with
with the numbering of BCBS           template. This would make disclosures easier for      BCBS template KM1 would be confusing. BCBS
                                                                                                                                              No     amendments
template KM1                         those banks that may wish to adopt KM1                template KM1 includes information that is not
                                                                                                                                              were made as a
                                     disclosures early, assist international comparability included in Template IFRS 9-FL. This means that
                                                                                                                                              result   of   this
                                     and avoid having to re-engineer the template          following BCBS numbering would lead to gaps in the
                                                                                                                                              comment.
                                     when the transitional period ends or additional key   numbering of the rows, and this might lead to
                                     metric disclosures are made by banks, i.e. avoid      misunderstandings.
                                     erratic row numbering.
Accompanying narrative ñ             Institutions are expected to supplement the
information on significant           template with an accompanying narrative to
changes in the metric values         explain any significant changes in the metric values
compared with the previous           mentioned compared with previous quarters. In                                                            No     amendments
quarters                             this respect, clarity is needed on whether it is                                                         were made as a
                                     expected that the accompanying narrative will                                                            result   of   this
                                     need to be included in upcoming disclosures to                                                           comment.
                                     explain material changes from one quarter to the
                                     next until they are phased out after T-4. We
                                     suggest disclosing commentary only on material
                                                                                                                                                             23

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                 Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                       EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                 the proposals
                                     changes compared with the previous quarter (T-1).
                                     We are of the view that the proposed template
                                     would generate significant redundancy. Of the 16
                                     proposed rows, the information required for 9 is
                                                                                         While the EBA acknowledges that part of the
                                     already provided in existing disclosures. The
                                                                                         information included in the disclosure template
                                     template should therefore be limited to ratios that
                                                                                         IFRS 9-FL is also included in other disclosure
                                     are relevant, namely the CET1 ratio and the
                                                                                         templates at EU level, this information is still needed
                                     leverage ratio (rows 1, 2, 8, 9, 15 and 16). We
                                                                                         in Template IFRS 9-FL in order to disclose a complete
                                     suggest deleting rows 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13
                                                                                         picture of the impact of IFRS 9 transitional
                                     and 14.
                                                                                         arrangements on own funds and capital and
                                     Finally, we do not consider it appropriate to       leverage ratios.
                                     increase the frequency of comparative disclosure
Some of the information                                                                  Template IFRS 9-FL requires the disclosure of           No     amendments
                                     to up to four times a year, nor do we believe this
required is already included in                                                          information for one, two or three reference dates       were made as a
                                     would be consistent with the presentation of
other disclosure requirements.                                                           depending on the frequency with which institutions      result   of   this
                                     comparative reference dates for other disclosures.
                                                                                         are required to disclose information on own funds,      comment.
Frequency of the disclosures.        We therefore suggest requiring all banks to
                                                                                         leverage ratio and RWA. Therefore, the template
                                     disclose comparative information for one
                                                                                         does not increase the frequency with which
                                     reference date per year. In our view, this would
                                                                                         information has to be disclosed and it does not
                                     also be consistent with the requirements of the
                                                                                         require substantial additional resources or effort for
                                     EBA guidelines on disclosure requirements for
                                                                                         institutions. Furthermore, this information is
                                     RWA under Part Eight of Regulation (EU) No
                                                                                         beneficial for the users of information, ensures
                                     575/2013 (see. page 57 of EBA/GL/2016/11: ëRWA
                                                                                         compliance with international standards and
                                     (T-1): RWA as disclosed in the previous interim
                                                                                         facilitates      comparability        with         non-
                                     period. As template EU OV1 is required to be
                                                                                         EU international active banks.
                                     disclosed with quarterly frequency, the RWA (T-1)
                                     figure should be the figure disclosed at the end of
                                     the previous quarterí).
Reference       dates for the        Concerning the time dimension, we do not            Template IFRS 9-FL requires the disclosure of           No     amendments
disclosure      of comparative       consider it appropriate to extend the time series   information for one, two or three reference dates,      were made as a
                                                                                                                                                                24

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                      Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                          EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                      the proposals
information.                         up to four times a year. Thus, we suggest that         depending on the frequency with which institutions        result     of      this
                                     banks disclose comparative information for one         are required to disclose information on own funds,        comment.
                                     reference date per year. We believe it would be        leverage ratio and RWA. Therefore, the template
                                     consistent with the EBA Guidelines on disclosure       does not increase the frequency with which
                                     requirements under Part Eight of Regulation (EU)       information has to be disclosed and it does not
                                     No 575/2013 (see page 57 of EBA/GL/2016/11:            require substantial additional resources or effort for
                                     ëRWA (T-1): RWA as disclosed in the previous           institutions. In addition, this information is beneficial
                                     interim period. As template EU OV1 is required to      for the users of information, ensures compliance
                                     be disclosed with quarterly frequency, the RWA (T-     with international standards and facilitates
                                     1) figure should be the figure disclosed at the end    comparability with non-EU international active
                                     of the previous quarterí)                              banks.
                                     In principle, the disclosure of divergence resulting   The disclosure template fully follows the disclosure
                                     from the application of IFRS 9 transitional            requirements in paragraph 8 of the regulation and
                                     provisions should be limited to material facts and     the mandate for the EBA set in the same paragraph.
                                     to parameters that are relevant for the capital                                                                  For             those
                                     markets and the general public. In this connection,                                                              institutions    under
                                     it should be noted that transitional provisions for                                                              the scope of the
                                     the inclusion of AT1 and Tier 2 capital instruments,                                                             guidelines        that
Information on transitional          pursuant to the CRR and Basel III, will remain                                                                   decide not to apply
provisions with an impact on         relevant beyond 1 January 2018, thus leading to                                                                  the       transitional
Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2         different indications of Tier 1 and total capital, the                                                           arrangements
capital.                             relevant capital ratios, and the leverage ratio. We                                                              specified in Article
Information redundancies.            believe that disclosing different phased-in ratios                                                               473a,              the
                                     (with     and      without     IFRS 9     transitional                                                           requirement          to
                                     arrangements), with the level of granularity                                                                     provide the reasons
                                     proposed, would create not transparency but                                                                      behind this decision
                                     general uncertainty.                                                                                             has been dropped.
                                     Moreover, the proposed table would lead to             While the EBA acknowledges that some of the
                                     significant redundancies: 9 of the proposed 16         information included in the disclosure template
                                     lines are already included in existing disclosure      IFRS 9-FL is also included in other disclosure
                                                                                                                                                                          25

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                         EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
                                     templates. Therefore, disclosure should be limited    templates at EU level, this information is still needed
                                     to truly relevant parameters, i.e. CET1, CET1 ratio   in Template IFRS 9-FL in order to disclose a complete
                                     and leverage ratio (lines 1, 2, 8, 9, 15 and 16). We  picture of the impact of IFRS 9 transitional
                                     thus propose deleting lines 3-7 and 10-14.            arrangements on own funds and capital and
                                                                                           leverage ratio.
                                     We consider extending disclosure to up to four
                                     reference dates to be inappropriate; moreover, we     Template IFRS 9-FL requires the disclosure of
                                     believe it would also be inconsistent with the        information for one, two or three reference dates
                                     presentation of reference dates for other             depending on the frequency with which institutions
                                     information that forms part of the disclosure.        are required to disclose information on own funds,
                                     Hence we propose limiting disclosure to one           leverage ratio and RWAs. Therefore the template
                                     reference date throughout. We believe that this       does not increase the frequency with which
                                     would also be consistent with the requirements set    information has to be disclosed and does not require
                                     out by EBA/GL/2016/11 pursuant to Part Eight of       substantial additional resources or effort for
                                     Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 concerning RWA (see       institutions. In addition, this information is beneficial
                                     page 57: ëRWA (T-1): RWA as disclosed in the          for the users of information, ensures compliance
                                     previous interim period. As template EU OV1 is        with international standards and facilitates
                                     required to be dis-closed with quarterly frequency,   comparability with non-EU international active
                                     the RWA (T-1) figure should be the figure disclosed   banks.
                                     at the end of the previous quarter.í)
                                     Template        IFRS 9-FL     (Annex I)      contains
                                     requirements concerning phased-in and fully
                                     loaded disclosures. According to the described
                                     scope of application, institutions that choose not
                                                                                           The EBA agrees that there is no need to justify the
                                     to apply the transitional arrangements should
                                                                                           frontloading of the full implementation of IFRS 9.
                                     disclose a narrative commentary explaining that
                                     they are not applying the IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs
                                     transitional arrangements, the reasons behind that
                                     decision and that their own funds, capital ratios
                                     and leverage ratio already reflect the full impact of
                                     IFRS 9 or analogous ECLs. We agree with the
                                                                                                                                                                   26

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                                                            Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                        EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                            the proposals
                                     requirement for a ënot-applying-statementí as well
                                     as a statement reflecting the full impact of IFRS 9.
                                     In our opinion it is not reasonable to require
                                     institutions to justify the full implementation of
                                     IFRS 9. We believe stakeholders are more
                                     interested in the reasons of making use of the
                                     transitional arrangements than of applying the
                                     fully-loaded approach. Therefore we propose
                                     removing the disclosure requirements with regard
                                     to the reasons for full IFRS 9 implementation. It
                                     could be more useful to disclose the reasons for
                                     the decision to apply the transitional arrangements
                                     specified in Article 473a instead.
                                     We agree with the content of the guidelines, but
                                     we recommend, for more clarity and
                                     comparability, requiring to disclose RWA on an                                                         No     amendments
                                                                                          This proposal goes beyond the disclosure
                                     IFRS 9 fully loaded basis, including a split by                                                        were made as a
                                                                                          requirements set in the regulation and cannot
                                     individual exposure classes (Article 112 CRR for SA                                                    result   of   this
                                                                                          therefore be included in the guidelines.
                                     and Article 147 for IRB); especially in SA, due to                                                     comment.
                                     logic of allocation of risk weights in accordance
                                     with Article 127, would be very useful.
                                     We support the overall content of the draft
                                     guidelines and the templates proposed in the
                                     Consultation Paper and agree that the draft                                                            No     amendments
                                     guidelines will contribute to increasing the                                                           were made as a
                                     consistency and comparability of information                                                           result   of   this
                                     disclosed in the context of IFRS 9 transitional                                                        comment.
                                     arrangements.                                        The impact of transitional arrangements on Tier 2
                                     The proposed quantitative template includes lines    capital is embedded in the data required in the
                                                                                                                                                           27

FINAL REPORT ON THE GUIDELINES ON UNIFORM DISCLOSURE OF
IFRS 9 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
Comments                             Summary of responses received                           EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                                     to show CET1, Tier 1 and Total Capital figures. For     template, when asking institutions to disclose Tier 1
                                     completeness, the EBA may want to consider              and total capital ratios with and without the impact
                                     including lines on Tier 2 capital as well, particularly of transitional arrangements. The term ëfully loadedí
                                     as IFRS 9 phase-in may have an impact on Tier 2         has not been used in order to avoid confusion as
                                     capital. This is particularly the case for banks that   ëfully loadedí terminology is usually applied to refer
                                     have an excess of accounting provisions over            to all transitional arrangements with an impact on
                                     regulatory expected loss pre-IFRS 9 phase-in and        capital ratios.
                                     for which that excess is eligible to be included in
                                     Tier 2 Capital under CRR Article 62(d).
                                     We would like to point out the differences in
                                     terminology used in the March 2017 BCBS Pillar 3
                                     disclosure requirements standard and the
                                     proposed Guidelines. Specifically, we recommend
                                     using the well-established term fully loadedù (as in
                                     the BCBS standard) rather than the longer and
                                     more ambiguous ëas if IFRS 9 transitional
                                     arrangements were not appliedíù (as in the draft
                                     guidelines).
                                                                                                                                                                  28

