 EBA/GL/2019/03
 6 March 2019
Final Report
Guidelines for the estimation of LGD appropriate for an economic
downturn (‘Downturn LGD estimation’)

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
Contents
1. Executive summary                                                    3
2. Background and rationale                                             5
3. Guidelines                                                          38
4. Accompanying documents                                              51
4.1    Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment                   51
4.2    Summary of responses to the consultation and the EBA’s analysis 64
                                                                        2

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
1. Executive summary
These guidelines (GL) specify how loss given default (LGD) appropriate for an economic downturn,
which has been identified in accordance with the final draft Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS)
on economic downturn, should be quantified. They supplement the Guidelines on PD estimation,
LGD estimation and the treatment of defaulted assets (EBA/GL/2017/16)1 of 20/11/2017 (GL on PD
and LGD estimation) and provide specific guidance on how to estimate LGD appropriate for an
economic downturn.
These GL are hence an addendum to the GL on PD and LGD estimation, which are part of the
European Banking Authority’s (EBA’s) roadmap to reduce unwarranted variability of risk
parameters and own funds requirements. As such, this publication completes the plan outlined in
the report on the review of the Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) approach published in February 2016.2,3
The policy for downturn LGD estimation builds on the notion of an economic downturn that is
specified in the final draft regulatory technical standards on the specification of the nature, severity
and duration of an economic downturn in accordance with Articles 181(3)(a) and 182(4)(a) of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR), published on 16 November 2018.4
The RTS on economic downturn set out the requirements for the identification of an economic
downturn for the type of exposures covered by a rating system. As a rating system may, however,
cover exposures from different businesses, sectors and geographical areas, the notion of an
economic downturn set forth in the RTS may comprise several distinct downturn periods. The GL
for downturn LGD estimation provide guidance on how to calibrate downturn LGD appropriate for
an economic downturn, taking into account the downturn period(s) identified in accordance with
the RTS. To this end, the GL differentiate three types of approaches for calibrating downturn LGD:
           (i) type 1 approaches, based on the observed impact on losses of a particular downturn
           period;
           (ii) type 2 approaches, where such an impact on losses has not been observed (e.g. because
           the downturn periods identified in accordance with the RTS have occurred too long ago)
           but the impact can be estimated using a limited set of methodologies;
1
         https://eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/2033363/Guidelines+on+PD+and+LGD+estimation+%28EBA-GL-2017-
16%29.pdf/6b062012-45d6-4655-af04-801d26493ed0
2
      https://www.eba.europa.eu/-/eba-sets-out-roadmap-for-the-implementation-of-the-regulatory-review-of-internal-
models
3
  It should be noted that the work on the RTS on economic downturn (which was a single item in that plan) has been split
into the specification of the notion of an economic downturn and these GL providing guidance on how to incorporate
such a downturn into LGD estimates.
4
  https://eba.europa.eu/-/eba-publishes-final-draft-technical-standards-on-the-specification-of-an-economic-downturn
                                                                                                                      3

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
          (iii) type 3 approaches, where neither type 1 nor type 2 approaches can be applied and
          therefore institutions may apply their preferred modelling approach but have to comply
          with a minimum margin of conservatism (MoC) requirement.
Although the downturn LGD estimates should optimally be quantified based on the observed loss
data, this approach is permitted only where relevant and sufficient loss data to analyse the
observed impact of the downturn period under consideration are available. If this is the case,
downturn LGDs should be quantified based on observed data reflecting the impact of the downturn
period under consideration. However, if no loss data are available to calibrate downturn LGD for a
particular downturn period based on observed data, it may be possible to estimate the impact on
the losses of this downturn period. Therefore, in the latter case institutions are required to calibrate
downturn LGD through more prescriptive approaches. Two methodologies are allowed in this case,
namely the extrapolation and haircut approaches (or a combination of the two). Under both
methodologies and in line with paragraphs 37, 42 and 43 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation, an
appropriate MoC to cover for the lack of data (Category A MoC) will in addition be required. Finally,
a third approach is available in cases where no relevant loss data are available for the downturn
periods under consideration and institutions can justify to the satisfaction of the competent
authorities that they cannot apply the extrapolation and/or haircut approach or a combination of
the two. In this case, institutions may apply their preferred modelling approach, but have to add
MoC to cover for the methodological and data deficiencies, such that the downturn LGD estimates
including MoC are equal or higher than the long-run average LGD plus 15 percentage points, capped
at 105%.
Last, a reference value is introduced that acts as a non-binding challenger to the final downturn
LGD estimation and as a guide for the supervisory assessment of the appropriateness of the
resulting quantification. This means that the reference value acts as a challenger to the whole
downturn LGD estimation, including the proper identification of the downturn period(s) pursuant
to the RTS on economic downturn.
These GL provide requirements for the calibration of downturn LGD. Given this, they provide for a
different calibration target next to the long-run average. Therefore, these GL do not touch upon
issues related to model development.
The guidelines will support the appropriate quantification of downturn LGD. Like the GL on PD and
LGD estimation, it is expected that these GL will lead to material model changes for a significant
number of rating systems. In this context, it should be recalled that these GL are an addendum to
the GL on PD and LGD estimation and that therefore the proposed phasing-in approach, as well as
the deadline of at latest end-2020 for the final implementation, set out in the EBA’s Opinion on the
implementation of the review of the IRB approach,5 published by EBA in February 2016, will apply.
5
  https://eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/1359456/EBA-Op-2016-01+Opinion+on+IRB+implementation.pdf
                                                                                                       4

 GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
2. Background and rationale
2.1 Introduction
      1. The quantification of downturn LGD has been challenging for competent authorities, industry
           and academics alike ever since the Basel II framework introduced this concept. The
           requirement for loss given default (LGD) and conversion factor (CF) estimates to reflect
           economic downturn conditions was introduced in the Basel II capital framework and stems
           from the general economic model that is used to derive the formula for calculating minimum
           own funds requirements. In the Basel II capital framework, unexpected losses are based on the
           conditional expected loss given a high confidence level for the single systematic risk factor
           leading to high credit losses. Whereas the risk weight formula includes a supervisory mapping
           function to derive conditional probabilities of default (PDs) 6 from unconditional long-run
           average PDs estimated by the institutions, it does not provide an explicit function that would
           transform long-run average LGDs and exposures at default (EADs) into conditional LGDs and
           exposure values (respectively CFs). Instead, it requires institutions to use LGDs that are
           appropriate for an economic downturn. The lack of explicit guidance and limited supervisory
           and industry consensus on how to incorporate the economic downturn component in model
           estimation has led to significant differences in practices and has given rise to unwarranted
           variability in risk-weighted exposure (RWE) amounts when own estimates of LGDs and/or CFs
           are used.
      2. These guidelines (GL) understand downturn LGD estimation as an aspect of risk parameter
           quantification – in line with the specification of the respective requirements in Sub-Section 2,
           Section 6, Chapter 3 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR). This implies, most importantly,
           that the quantification of downturn LGD should refer to the same LGD model used for the
           assignment of facilities to facility grades or pools that is relevant to the long-run average LGD
           estimation. Thus, it is expected that the assignment to facility grades and pools within a given
           calibration segment should not change due to downturn LGD estimation. These GL do not
           apply to CF estimation appropriate for an economic downturn.
Context of downturn LGD estimation
      3. In general terms, the European Banking Authority (EBA) is fully supportive of allowing a
           diversity of model practices. The strength of internal models lies in the ability of institutions to
           model on institution-specific data, which ensures a high degree of risk sensitivity and
           constitutes an important characteristic of own funds requirements that should be maintained.
           It is, however, also clear that this requires sufficiently granular data and specific guidance on
           the calibration targets. In this context, these guidelines focus on the calibration target, i.e.
           LGDs appropriate for an economic downturn (downturn LGDs), and not the calibration
6
  That is conditional on a set value of the single systematic risk factor (i.e. based on the 99.9% confidence level).
                                                                                                                      5

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         methodology applied to ensure that the calibration target is met. Therefore, the proposed
         policy leaves flexibility with respect to the actual estimation methodology but provides
         guidance on the types of approaches to be used for the quantification of the calibration target.
     4. Because of this understanding, the level at which downturn LGDs are calibrated should be at
         least the same as the level at which long-run average LGDs are calculated for the purpose of
         calibration. In this context, it should be recalled that the GL on PD and LGD estimation define
         the notion of ‘calibration segments’ as a uniquely identified subset of the range of application
         of the LGD model that is jointly calibrated. The use of calibration segments does not, however,
         require institutions to calibrate LGDs at the level of calibration segments. Institutions may use
         calibration segments but calibrate LGD estimates at the level of each grade or pool (e.g. if, in
         the step of calibration, the portfolio under consideration is split by certain regions) within
         those calibration segments. However, regardless of whether an institution calculates the long-
         run average LGD at the level of calibration segments or at the level of grades or pools, both
         with the objective of providing LGD estimates by facility grade or pool, the quantification of
         downturn LGD estimates should follow the level considered by the institution for the purpose
         of calibrating LGD estimates to the long-run average LGD.
     5. In line with the aspects covered by the CRR in the context of quantification of risk parameters,
         these GL provide, in addition, requirements on MoC related to downturn LGD estimation.
         Issues of representativeness have not been addressed, as these are covered by
         subsection 4.2.4 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation. Figure 1 illustrates (analogously to
         Figure 3 of the Background and rationale section of the GL on PD and LGD estimation) how the
         GL on downturn LGD estimation are embedded in the GL on PD and LGD estimation.
                                                                                                         6

                      GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                              Figure 1: Illustration of GL on downturn LGD in the context of GL on PD and LGD estimation
                                                     Estimation of risk parameters (LGD)
                              LGD Model                           LGD Calibration                  LGD Calibration
                             development                        (long-run average)                   (downturn)
                       4.2.3 Representativeness of          4.2.4 Representativeness of      4.2.4 Representativeness of
                       data for model development           data for calibration of risk     data for calibration of risk
LGD (non-defaulted)
                       6.2 Model development in             parameters                       parameters
                       LGD estimation                       6.3 LGD calibration              GLs on downturn LGD
                                                                                                                                 8.4 Calculation of IRB shortfall or excess
                                                                                                                                                                              8. Application of risk parameters
                                4.2.2 Governance for data representativeness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. Review of estimates
                                4.3 Human judgement in estimation of risk parameters
                                4.4 Treatment of deficiencies and margin of conservatism
                                6.1 General requirements specific to LGD estimation
                                                           4.2.4 Representativeness of
                                                           data for calibration of risk
                       4.2.3 Representativeness of         parameters                         4.2.4 Representativeness
                       data for model development          7.3.1 Calculation of realised      of data for calibration of
                       7.2 Model development in            LGD and LRA LGD for                risk parameters
 LGD (defaulted)
                       ELBE and LGD-in-default             defaulted exposures                GLs on downturn LGD
                       estimation                          7.3.3 Specific requirements
                                                           for LGD-in-default
                                                           estimation
                                4.2.2 Governance for data representativeness
                                4.3 Human judgement in estimation of risk parameters
                                4.4 Treatment of deficiencies and margin of conservatism
                                6 LGD estimation
                                7.1 General requirements specific to ELBE and LGD-in-default estimation
                                                  2.4 Definitions
                          General                 3 Implementation
                       requirements               4.1 Principles for specifying the range of application of the rating systems
                                                  4.2.1 Quality of data
                      Terminology used in these guidelines
                          6. The CRR sets out requirements on risk quantification in Section 6, Sub-Section 2 (Articles 178-
                             184 of the CRR). This sub-section in the CRR covers aspects including representativeness, MoC
                             and parameter estimations per grade or pool that lead to the quantification of the final
                             parameters being applied in calculating RWE amounts. The CRR refers to parameter estimation
                             where rules for quantification of PD and LGD estimates are set out (e.g. Article 180 of the CRR).
                          7. The term ‘calibration target’ is not used in the CRR. However, where it is used in this section it
                             refers to the value that is considered for the purpose of calibration in accordance with
                             paragraph 161 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation. It should be noted that the specification
                             of a calibration target in this sense and the estimation might coincide where institutions use
                             LGD models (in the sense of Article 174 of the CRR) that assign exposures to facility grades or
                             pools without providing for individual estimates of loss. In this case, the LGD model just
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7

 GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
          provides a grading or pooling of facilities, and the calibration target (e.g. long-run average LGD
          per facility grade and pool) coincides with the estimation of LGD per facility grade and pool. As
          stated earlier, the quantification of LGD or downturn LGD covers, in addition, the application
          of an appropriate MoC.
       8. In this context, it should be noted that the GL on PD and LGD estimation define the estimation
          of risk parameters as including risk differentiation and risk quantification, and that in this sense
          these GL on downturn LGD treat only the risk quantification part of downturn LGD estimation.
          The GL on PD and LGD envisage this interpretation of downturn LGD estimate by defining LGD
          calibration as:
          The part of the process of the estimation of risk parameters which leads to appropriate risk
          quantification by ensuring that the LGD estimates correspond to the long-run average LGD, or
          to the downturn LGD estimate where this is more conservative, at the level relevant for the
          applied method. 7
                         Figure 2 Illustration of notion of calibration
       9. In order to improve clarity in the GL text where it refers to the calibration target used for
          downturn LGD estimation and where it refers to the downturn LGD estimates by facility grade
          or pool, the following terminology is used throughout the text:
          Quantification of downturn LGD: the term quantification of downturn LGD covers all elements
          of the quantification of downturn LGD including the quantification of the calibration target,
          the quantification of the resulting downturn LGD estimates at grade and pool level and the
          quantification of MoC.
          Calibration of downturn LGD: the term calibration of downturn LGD in the context of these GL
          refers to the quantification of the calibration target at the relevant level. Please note that some
7
  Depending on the estimation methodology used by an institution, risk differentiation and risk quantification may be
interlinked and requirements relevant to the development of grades and pools and assignment to them may apply to risk
quantification and vice versa.
                                                                                                                    8

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         requirements for the calibration of downturn LGD require the quantification and recognition
         of MoC to be added to the final estimates at the level of grades and pools.
         Downturn LGD estimates: these are the LGD estimates appropriate for an economic downturn
         at the grade or pool level after calibration and before the application of MoC. These will
         generally be the best estimates. They are referred to only in the plural.
Three approaches to downturn LGD calibration
     10.The centrepiece of the GL provides the policy for quantification of the calibration target for
         downturn LGD for one specific downturn period. However, the final RTS on economic
         downturn provides a notion of an economic downturn that might comprise several distinct
         downturn periods. Where more than one downturn period is identified, these GL specify that
         the downturn LGD has to be calibrated for each of those periods. The final downturn LGDs
         used for the calculation of capital requirements should then relate to the single downturn
         period leading to the highest average LGD (on a calibration segment) if the resulting estimates
         plus MoC are applied to the current non-defaulted portfolio at the time of calibration.
     11.In line with the general principle of the internal ratings-based approach that the quantification
         of risk parameters should be based on observed data, the calibration of downturn LGD should
         be based on the observed impact of the downturn period on the relevant losses, where
         possible, and, where not, it should make use of certain methodologies. The GL therefore
         differentiate between three approaches, introduced in paragraphs 23 to 25, which are
         increasing in prescriptiveness and with regard to aspects that need to be covered by
         appropriate MoC:
                i. Type 1: downturn LGD calibration based on observed impact. Where sufficient (in
                   terms of timespan covered and quantity of data, to arrive at stable estimates) loss
                   data are available to assess the impact for the downturn period under consideration,
                   which has been identified in accordance with the RTS on economic downturn, the
                   institution should conduct a standardised impact assessment with a prescriptive
                   minimum scope. The impact assessment requires that institutions analyse whether
                   there is evidence of elevated realised LGDs, decreased annual recoveries, decreased
                   number of cures (i.e. exposures that defaulted and returned to non-defaulted status)
                   or prolonged time in default caused by the downturn period under consideration.
                   Downturn LGD should then be calibrated for the downturn period under consideration
                   in a way that it is coherent with the results obtained from that impact assessment, i.e.
                   the institution is required to consider the results of the impact assessment and to
                   model appropriately the loss components materially affected by the downturn period
                   under consideration.
               ii. Type 2: downturn LGD calibration based on estimated impact using historical loss
                   data (haircut or extrapolation approach or a combination of the two). Where loss
                   data are not available to base the downturn LGD calibration on an observed impact
                   for a considered downturn period, the downturn LGD should be calibrated using a
                   haircut approach or an extrapolation approach. The approaches may also be
                                                                                                          9

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                   combined and be used for the downturn calibration of intermediate risk parameters
                   (such as recovery rates or cure rates) and risk drivers.
              iii. Type 3: free modelling flexibility with minimum fixed add-on. Where sufficient data
                   are not available to quantify downturn LGDs for the downturn period under
                   consideration based on observed or estimated impact using the approaches outlined
                   in points (i) and (ii) above, the institution still has to provide downturn LGD estimates,
                   given the explicit requirement in the CRR. However, in this case, the estimates also
                   need to fulfil a minimum level of MoC, covering the lack of data and methodological
                   deficiencies. Moreover, the institution must justify to the satisfaction of the
                   competent authority that it can apply neither the approach outlined in point (i) nor
                   the approach outlined in point (ii) above. Under this third approach, it is required that
                   the final downturn LGD estimates plus an appropriate MoC be higher than the
                   corresponding long-run-average LGDs plus 15 percentage points (capped at a final
                   downturn LGD estimate level of 105%).
Structure of the guidelines
     12.As a precondition for applying these GL, institutions need to have identified the relevant
         downturn periods for the type of exposures covered by the rating system under consideration.
     13.The GL for downturn LGD estimation are structured as follows:
         4.        General requirements on downturn LGD estimation
                   This section clarifies, inter alia, at which level institutions should calibrate downturn
                   LGDs for the purpose of providing downturn LGD estimates per grade or pool.
                   Moreover, it provides guidance on how to select the finally relevant downturn
                   period(s) in case multiple downturn periods have been identified when applying the
                   RTS on economic downturn.
         4.1       Requirements that apply to the final downturn LGD estimates
                   This subsection contains requirements to ensure that downturn LGDs are more
                   conservative than the long-run average LGD as required by Article 181(1)(b) of the
                   CRR. Moreover, it provides guidance on how to ensure that LGD models containing
                   risk drivers sensitive to the economic cycle are appropriately calibrated to downturn
                   conditions. Last, it contains the requirement that the final downturn LGDs are to be
                   compared with a non-binding challenger (reference value), which should be
                   calculated as set out in section 8 of the GL.
         4.2       Downturn LGD estimation for defaulted exposures
                   This subsection provides guidance on how to estimate the downturn component of
                   LGD for defaulted exposures.
         4.3       Downturn LGD estimation for one considered downturn period
                                                                                                          10

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                   This subsection sets out the requirements on how to calibrate downturn LGD when
                   considering a single downturn period using the methodologies set out in section 5,
                   section 6 or section 7.
    5. Downturn LGD estimation based on observed impact
         This section contains requirements on how to calibrate downturn LGD when the institution
         has observed loss data reflecting the impact of the downturn period under consideration.
    6. Downturn LGD estimation based on estimated impact
         This section contains requirements on how to calibrate downturn LGD when the institution
         has no observed loss data reflecting the impact of the downturn period under consideration
         available but when it can reliably estimate the impact of the downturn period under
         consideration using a limited set of methodologies.
    7. Downturn LGD estimation where observed or estimated impact is not available
         This section sets out a minimum aggregate MoC requirement when downturn LGD cannot be
         calibrated using either of the methodologies set out in section 5 and section 6.
    8. Reference value
         This section lays down how to calculate the reference value to be used as a non-binding
         challenger of the final downturn LGDs.
2.2 General requirements on downturn LGD estimation
     14.Paragraph 13 of these GL clarifies that the GL should be understood as an amendment of the
         GL on PD and LGD estimation. Therefore, all definitions and all relevant requirements of
         section 4 on general estimation requirements, section 6 on LGD estimation, section 7 on LGD-
         in-default estimation, section 8 on the application of risk parameters and section 9 on the
         review of estimates of the GL on PD and LGD estimation equally apply to downturn LGD
         estimation.
     15.This means in particular that the concept of the MoC laid down in the GL on PD and LGD
         estimation should also be applied to downturn LGD estimation. Therefore, the MoC for
         downturn LGD estimation should be assessed in accordance with the requirements set out in
         subsection 4.4 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation. In particular, this means that institutions
         should:
         a.    identify all deficiencies related to the estimation of downturn LGDs that may lead to a bias
               in the quantification of the estimates or to an increased uncertainty which is not captured
               by the general estimation error specifically related to the downturn LGD estimation in
               accordance with the guidance set out in subsection 4.4.1 of the GL on PD and LGD
               estimation;
         b.    apply appropriate adjustments (as described in subsection 4.4.2 of the GL on PD and LGD
               estimation) to overcome the identified deficiencies in order to provide a more accurate
               downturn LGD estimation; and
                                                                                                        11

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         c.    reflect the uncertainty of the downturn LGD estimation (including appropriate
               adjustments) by quantifying an MoC subdivided into three categories:
                     i. Category A: MoC related to data and methodological deficiencies identified under
                        Category A as referred to in paragraph 36(a) of the GL on PD and LGD estimation;
                    ii. Category B: MoC related to relevant changes to underwriting standards, risk
                        appetite, collection and recovery policies and any other source of additional
                        uncertainty identified under Category B as referred to in paragraph 36(b) of the
                        GL on PD and LGD estimation; and
                   iii. Category C: MoC related to the general estimation error.
     16.The GL clarify in paragraph 14(a) that downturn LGD should be calibrated at least at the same
         level as that at which the long-run average LGD is calculated for the purpose of calibrating LGD
         in accordance with paragraph 161 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation. The rationale for this
         is that downturn LGD estimation should be understood as risk quantification of LGD estimates
         appropriate for an economic downturn, i.e. that the downturn LGD calibration just provides a
         different calibration target from long-run average LGD and sets out additional requirements
         regarding the applicable MoC. Thus, if an institution considers the long-run average LGDs by
         grades or pools (in line with paragraph 161(a) of the GL on PD and LGD estimation) with the
         objective of calibrating LGD estimates for these grades or pools, it needs to consider the same
         level for quantifying downturn LGD. If an institution considers long-run average LGDs
         calculated at the level of calibration segments for the purpose of LGD calibration (in line with
         Article 161(b) of the GL on PD and LGD estimation), it needs to quantify downturn LGDs for the
         purpose of downturn LGD calibration at least by calibration segment.
     17.In addition paragraph 14(b) provides guidance on the use of calibration segments in downturn
         LGD estimation analogous to paragraph 97 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation, which provides
         guidance on the use of calibration segments for PD estimation. An institution should identify
         subsets of the type of exposure under consideration as calibration segments, where exposures
         in these subsets are covered by the same LGD model for assignment to facility grades but on
         average show significantly different loss profiles, and where exposures in these subsets are
         affected differently by downturn periods. At a minimum, banks are required to consider
         material subsets of exposures covering different geographical areas/jurisdictions or industry
         sectors or, in the case of retail, product types as calibration segments. The rationale for this
         minimum requirement is that economic factors in the RTS are required to be customised to
         each relevant jurisdiction and sector. A typical example of where the use of calibration
         segments should be considered is the situation when an LGD model is rolled out to a different
         jurisdiction. The drivers for LGD might be the same in a different jurisdiction and thus the LGD
         model might provide a reasonable risk differentiation in a different jurisdiction, but the overall
         loss profile might be significantly different due to, for example, different legal processes in the
         context of collateral liquidation. It may, however, also turn out that loss characteristics and
         levels are independent from, for example, jurisdictions or industry sectors, in which case the
         differentiation of calibration segments might not be necessary.
                                                                                                          12

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     18.The provision set out in paragraph 15 of the GL ensures that, as a general concept, an
         institution needs to estimate downturn LGDs appropriate to each downturn period identified
         in accordance with the RTS on economic downturn. As the approach in the RTS can lead to the
         identification of multiple downturn periods, institutions need to calibrate downturn LGD and
         provide the resulting LGD downturn estimates in relation to different downturn periods.
         Consequently, this may require institutions to calibrate downturn LGD based on different types
         of approaches (as described in section 2.5 of this Background and rationale), as loss data might
         be available for some identified downturn periods, but not for others.
     19.Given that, in the case of multiple downturn periods, institutions may have to use different
         approaches in order to set the calibration target, it is important to specify in detail how this
         interaction should work, which will in turn specify which final downturn LGD estimates should
         be selected. Therefore, three principles are laid down in the policy:
                i. First, the proposed policy requires that the final downturn LGD estimates relate to one
                   downturn period per calibration segment.
               ii. Second, where for one of the downturn periods identified downturn LGD is calibrated
                   using a type 3 approach and for another downturn period downturn LGD is calibrated
                   using a type 1 or type 2 approach, then the latter shall be taken into account for the
                   final LGD downturn estimates and an MoC needs to be added for the lack of analysis
                   of one downturn period. In brief, downturn LGD estimation subject to the minimum
                   add-on is disregarded where downturn LGD estimation is possible based on observed
                   or estimated impact for any other downturn period subject to an additional
                   appropriate MoC. Under no circumstances should this principle be abused to
                   circumvent the obligatory use of type 2 approaches where their application is possible.
                   Indeed, it is expected that type 3 approaches will be considered only in exceptional
                   cases. Therefore, the waiver for downturn periods that require a type 3 approach as
                   set out in paragraph 15(a)(iv) of the GL will be revised by the EBA, should there be
                   indications of excessive or misuse of this waiver.
              iii. Third, where LGD estimates are quantified for several downturn periods, institutions
                   should choose as the finally relevant downturn period the period that results in the
                   highest average downturn LGD for the calibration segment under consideration. It is
                   important to note that this refers to the average downturn LGD of the latest available
                   snapshot of the current non-defaulted portfolio at the time of calibration.
     20.The rationale for the first principle is that, where different calibration segments cover
         exposures from, for example, different jurisdictions, industry sectors or even product types for
         retail exposures, the multiple downturn periods will have different impacts on these
         calibration segments. The second principle is justified by the fact that the LGD estimates based
         on type 3 approaches are not based on observed or estimated impact on loss data and are
         therefore considered less reliable. The third principle ensures that the estimation is based on
         the downturn period that leads to the highest expected impact when applying the final
         downturn LGD estimation. In this context, it should be noted that theoretically an institution
         might have to apply a type 3 approach for several downturn periods and might not be able to
                                                                                                        13

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         quantify downturn LGD for any downturn periods based on a type 1 or type 2 approach. In this
         case, the second principle would not be applicable and the third principle would provide
         guidance for the choice of the finally relevant downturn period.
     21.It is important to note that the downturn LGD estimates for the grades and pools of one
         calibration segment refer to the same downturn period, although the actual downturn LGD
         estimates per grade and pool will be different.
       Example 1
       As an example, consider an obligor-based retail rating system covering three types of facilities:
       mortgages, consumer credits and overdrafts on current accounts. For the purpose of long-run
       average LGD calculation, the system differentiates between two calibration segments:
       (A) mortgages; and (B) consumer credits and overdrafts on current accounts. In accordance
       with Article 1(2) of the final draft RTS on economic downturn, the economic downturn should
       be identified for each type of exposure, where the latter should be understood in the sense of
       Article 142(2) of the CRR (i.e. as exposures that are homogeneously managed).
       Therefore, in this example (where it is assumed that all three products are homogeneously
       managed), for both calibration segments the institution should analyse the impact of
       downturn periods identified in accordance with the RTS by considering the following economic
       factors:
                  i. GDP growth and unemployment rate, which are relevant economic factors for all
                     exposure categories, according to Article 2(1)(a) of the final draft RTS on economic
                     downturn;
                 ii. house price index, which according to Article 2(1)(b)(i) of the final draft RTS on
                     economic downturn is relevant to the exposure category ‘corporate and retail
                     residential real estate’;
                iii. household debt 1 , which according to Article 2(b)(i) of the RTS on economic
                     downturn is relevant to the exposure category ‘retail other than i., ii. or iii’.
       The final downturn LGD estimates for the calibration segment under consideration refer to
       the single downturn period leading to the highest downturn LGD estimates (on average), as
       set out in paragraph 15 of the GL text.
                                                                                                         14

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
       Example 1 – cont.
       Furthermore, assume that GDP growth, unemployment rate and total household debt define
       one common downturn period lasting from 2008 to 2010 and the housing price index defines
       a second downturn period lasting from 1990 to 1991 (all identified in accordance with the final
       draft RTS on economic downturn). In this case, the institution would need to provide the
       following downturn LGD estimates:
   Moreover, this implies, for the example above, that the institution should estimate two downturn
   LGDs for the calibration segment (A) mortgages, one relating to downturn period 1 (1990-1991,
   specified based on the house price index) and another related to downturn period 2 (2008-2010,
   defined on the basis of GDP growth, unemployment rate and total household debt), and pick as
   the relevant downturn period the period that results in the higher of the two downturn LGD
   estimates, considered as averages at calibration segment level. This comparison is necessary
   because, otherwise, different grades could refer to different downturn periods, which would
   result in undue complexity and would lack economic rationale.
   If the institution does not have, or is not able to estimate, an impact on loss data for the downturn
   period 1990-1991 and, therefore, the downturn LGD is subject to the minimum MoC requirement
   as set out in section 7, the latter will not be used when comparing it with the downturn LGD
   estimated for the downturn period 2008-2010 even if higher (unless the LGD for 2008-2010 is
   also estimated in accordance with methodologies described in section 7). However, an
   appropriate MoC should be added to the final downturn LGD estimate to cover the downturn
   period not analysed. Conversely, if the institution does not have data to estimate downturn LGDs
   based on observed impact related to the downturn period 1990-1991, but it is able to estimate
   downturn LGDs based on the estimated impact and in accordance with the methodologies
   described in section 6, then this estimation might be compared with the downturn LGD estimated
   for the downturn period 2008-2010. In this example, this is justified because it could be expected
   that the impact from the drop in the house price index observed in 1990-1991 characterises the
   more relevant downturn period for calibration segment A.
      22.Paragraph 15(b) of the GL lays down that, where institutions can provide evidence that a
         downturn period is not relevant to one of the calibration segments, that downturn period can
                                                                                                        15

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         be disregarded for that calibration segment. For this purpose, institutions should provide
         evidence that the economic factors underlying the downturn period under consideration are
         not relevant to the calibration segment under consideration. This will be the case mainly when
         downturn periods are defined based on sectoral or industry-specific factors and the calibration
         segments are also defined in terms of sectors or industry segments. In these cases, the
         downturn period defined based on economic indicators related to industry A will not be
         relevant to the calibration segment related to industry B. However, if the downturn period is
         defined based on economic indicators related to both industries A and B, this will also be
         relevant to the calibration segment related to industry B. Thus, in Example 1 above, the
         downturn period 1990-1991 may be disregarded for calibration segment B, consisting of
         consumer credits and overdrafts, when properly justified.
2.3 Requirements that apply to the final downturn LGD estimates
      23.The requirements set out in section 4.1 apply only to the final downturn LGD estimates, which
         are related to the finally relevant downturn periods that have been chosen in accordance with
         paragraph 15 for each calibration segment.
24.The policy proposed in paragraph 16 of the GL provides guidance related to the first sentence of
    Article 181(1)(b) of the CRR, which requires that institutions use LGD estimates that are appropriate
    for an economic downturn if those are more conservative than the long-run average LGD (LRA).
    The GL clarify how this requirement should be interpreted in the context of calibration of downturn
    LGD. It should be noted, however, that this requirement to compare downturn and long-run
    average LGD used for calibration is without prejudice to the requirement in Article 181(1)(b) of the
    CRR to ensure that the actual downturn LGD estimates are used (in application) if they are more
    conservative than long-run average LGDs. In general, and technically speaking, downturn LGD may
    be calibrated in either of the following ways:
         a)    directly, independently of the long-run average LGD estimation or
         b)    by an adjustment to the long-run average LGD.
      25.For the purpose of providing guidance on the CRR article in question, it seemed helpful to
         differentiate the two different technical approaches. In order to comply with the requirement
         that the higher of the long-run average and the downturn LGD estimate constitutes the final
         LGD estimate, paragraph 16 requires that the long-run average LGD plus the corresponding
         MoC be compared with the corresponding downturn LGD plus the corresponding MoC at the
         level relevant to the calibration. Although paragraph 14 allows downturn LGDs to be calibrated
         on a more granular level than the long-run average LGD, it is expected that generally the level
         of calibration for long-run average LGD and downturn LGD will be the same. In exceptional
         cases, however, where banks use a more granular level for the calibration of downturn LGD,
         institutions need to provide a meaningful aggregation in order to compare the downturn and
         long-run average LGDs used for calibration.
                                                                                                       16

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         However, where a downturn adjustment is applied to the long-run average LGD, this
         requirement implies that the MoC applied to the final LGD estimate (i.e. LRA + downturn
         adjustment + MoC) needs to account for both (i) the uncertainty related to the estimation of
         long-run average LGD and (ii) the uncertainty related to the calculation of the downturn
         adjustment.
            Example 2
                 If the downturn LGD is calibrated at grade level and the long-run average LGD is
                 calculated at calibration segment level for the purpose of calibration, here is one
                 example of how this comparison could be done in practice.
                 The institution could calculate the resulting downturn LGD estimates plus their
                 corresponding MoCs for all facilities in the reference data set (specific to the
                 calibration segment under consideration and on which the long-run average LGD is
                 calculated) and compare the resulting (case-weighted) average downturn LGD with
                 the long-run average LGD used for calibration.
     26.Paragraph 17 of the GL relates to the second sentence of Article 181(1)(b) of the CRR, which
         requires that institutions make adjustments to their estimates of risk parameters by grade or
         pool to limit the capital impact of an economic downturn if a rating system is expected to
         deliver realised LGDs at a constant level by grade or pool over time. The EBA considers that
         this provision is meant to ensure that the capital impact that stems from the migrations
         between facility grades and pools (e.g. in cases where risk drivers sensitive to the economic
         cycle are used) does not lead over time to an over- or underestimation of the LGDs appropriate
         for an economic downturn. This provision, however, targets migrations caused by changes in
         the economic cycle. Structural changes over time in a portfolio under consideration (which
         might also be caused by changes in economic conditions, e.g. due to tightened underwriting
         standards) are a matter of representativeness and should be treated in accordance with
         section 4 of the GL on PD and LGD. This entails in particular that institutions should assume
         that no exposures would have been newly added to a calibration segment and that no
         exposures would have left a calibration segment due to orderly termination of the contract,
         when considering the likely distribution of the current portfolio affected by the relevant
         downturn period.
                                                                                                     17

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
          Example 3
          As an example, a simplified LGD model for a retail mortgage portfolio with just one risk driver, in
          this case the loan-to-value ratio (LTV), could be considered. Thus, the LTV buckets define the pools
          of the LGD model under consideration. It is assumed that this LTV is defined as an updated LTV,
          i.e. an LTV metric where house price index (HPI) variations affect the value of the collateral and
          hence the denominator of the LTV metric. Thus, this risk driver is sensitive to the economic cycle
          (as defined by the economic factor HPI).
          In order to illustrate the impact of migrations caused by the economic cycle via such a risk driver
          on the distribution of facilities over grades and thus the final downturn LGD estimation, it is
          assumed that the composition of the portfolio remains constant1. In this case, when moving into
          an upturn, house prices might increase (HPI increase) and, since the LTV is affected by such
          increases, facilities tend to migrate to better LTV grades (i.e. LTVs tend to decrease). In the
          illustration below, the yellow band represents LTVs of 100% or higher, the grey band represents
          LTVs between 80% and 100%, the red band represents LTVs between 40% and 80%, and the blue
          band represents LTVs between 0% and 40%:
          In this example, it is also assumed that the downturn LGD estimates for the LTV buckets are
          quantified using the methodologies described in section 5, i.e. based on the impact on loss data
          available for the downturn period under consideration.
                                                               %#
                                               LTV BUCKET              DT LGD
                                                            FACILITIES
                                                   [0,40)      15%      10%
                                                  [40,80)      50%      25%
                                                 [80, 100)     30%      35%
                                                  [100, +)     5%       43%
                                                   PORTFOLIO DT LGD    26.65%
          The column ‘LTV Bucket’ represents the grades of the considered LGD model and the column ‘DT
          LGD’ represents the realised LGD, affected by an economic downturn, for each facility grade of the
          LGD estimation model under consideration. The column ‘% # FACILITIES’ illustrates the percentage
          of facilities that were observed in each LTV band at the time when the economic downturn affected
          the portfolio.
                                                                                                       18

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
       Example 3 – cont.
       If one assumes that the current state of the economic cycle is different from the one observed
       during the economic downturn, i.e. that the economy is currently in an upturn, then the downturn
       LGD estimations applied to the current portfolio result in the following picture, where the column
       ‘DT LGD’ represents the downturn LGD estimates per grade and the column ‘% # FACILITIES’
       illustrates the current percentage of facilities that are observed in each LTV band.
     27.In summary, Example 3 illustrates that, in cases of LGD models based on risk drivers sensitive
          to the economic cycle, the impact on the current capital requirements of an upcoming
          economic upturn (or downturn) is twofold: (i) the impact stemming from the expected lower
          (or higher) realised economic losses per facility (in the event of a downturn, this is covered by
          the downturn LGD estimation by grade) and (ii) the impact stemming from the migrations of
          facilities to lower (or higher) LTV bands.
     28.It is indeed true that the loss rates in the higher LTV bands already reflect the expected realised
          LGDs under upcoming downturn conditions. The expected realised loss (in contrast to the loss
          rates) will, however, be higher, due to the higher proportion of facilities that migrate to the
          higher LTV bands.
     29.The provision in paragraph 17 serves the purpose of ensuring that those LGD models that are
          based on risk drivers sensitive to the economic cycle appropriately estimate the economic loss
          (appropriate for an economic downturn) in the current state of the economic cycle at the time
          of calibration. The provision thus contains an expectation that for those LGD models an
          adjustment to the downturn LGDs should be applied that is higher in a favourable economic
          state of the economic cycle (at the time of calibration or recalibration) and smaller in an
          adverse state of the economic cycle (at the time of calibration or recalibration). If, however,
          the institution applies a downturn estimation methodology that incorporates this expectation
          (e.g. where the risk drivers are adjusted to reflect downturn conditions), then there is no need
          for additional adjustments. Indeed, the application of paragraph 17 of the GL should in no case
          lead to a double incorporation of the impact of an economic downturn. In this context,
          institutions should take into account that the underlying LGD model has to provide for
                                                                                                         19

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         sufficient homogeneity of exposures assigned to the same grades or pools in accordance with
         Article 38 of the RTS on assessment methodology.
     30.In this context, it should be recalled that section 9 of the GL on PD and LGD also applies to
         downturn LGD estimation and that in the light of paragraph 17 it might be necessary in the
         review of downturn LGD estimates to consider the effects of recent changes in the economic
         conditions on the current portfolio and where necessary recalibrate the final downturn LGD
         estimates.
     31.Paragraph 18 sets out the requirement to compare the resulting downturn LGD at the level of
         calibration segments (on the reference data set, RDS) with a reference value, which should be
         calculated following the rules set out in section 8 of the GL. The reference value is a challenger
         value; in the event of a material difference between the reference value and the downturn
         LGD estimates, this should be justified based on the guidance laid down in paragraph 19.
     32.In fact, the reference value can be driven by other issues than the impact of an economic
         downturn period (e.g. low number of defaults, changes in the portfolio composition, fraud or
         operational risk cases, or even natural disasters such as an earthquake). Even if the reference
         value is driven by an economic downturn period, the reference value itself should not be
         considered an appropriate quantification of downturn LGD (as it may not comply with all the
         requirements laid down in these GL). Therefore, specifically if downturn LGD estimation is
         based on type 1 approaches, institutions may use the evidence gathered from the impact
         assessment set out in paragraph 27 of the GL for the justification of the material difference.
         On the other hand, the selected years of the reference value might also point to a previously
         unidentified downturn period.
     33.It is important to stress the non-binding character of the reference value. In fact, as stated
         before, the reference value will generally not comply with the rules set out in these GL and
         should therefore not be used as a calibration target for downturn LGD estimation. In addition,
         it should be noted that the result of the re-assessment required by paragraph 19 may (and will
         in many cases) be that the downturn LGD estimation is appropriate.
     34.The reference value is nevertheless considered to be a meaningful supervisory tool, which
         supports the supervisory assessment of the resulting downturn LGD estimates and can support
         institutions in understanding the dynamics of their realised LGDs over time.
2.4 Downturn LGD estimation for defaulted exposures
     35.Section 4.2 of these GL provides guidance on the downturn LGD estimation for defaulted
         exposures. As a precondition to apply the policy laid down in this section, the institution should
         have identified the finally relevant downturn period per calibration segment for the non-
         defaulted exposures. As a general rule, for defaulted exposures, institutions should apply the
         GL for downturn LGD estimation for each reference date, but only in relation to the downturn
         period identified as relevant to the respective non-defaulted exposures. This will ensure that
         both LGD in default and LGD for non-defaulted exposures are based on the very same
         downturn period.
                                                                                                         20

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     36.As an exception, institutions may, for the purpose of estimating downturn LGD for defaulted
         exposures for a specific reference date, build on the estimation of downturn LGD at the time
         of default, if the institution can convincingly explain that this is a conservative estimate of
         downturn LGD in default for the specific reference date. In this context, it should be noted that
         the GL text in paragraph 21(b) refers to the downturn component for defaulted exposures at
         the moment of default. This is relevant, as in the event of partial write-offs at the moment of
         default the loss related to these write-offs will be relevant to the downturn LGD for non-
         defaulted exposure, but might not be taken into account for downturn LGD for defaulted
         exposure at the moment of default where compliant with paragraph 179 of the GL on PD and
         LGD estimation.
     37.The rationale for the exemption is that the LGD in default converges by construction to 100%
         and therefore the additional amount that can be lost due to an economic downturn decreases
         over time.
     38.Moreover, it should be noted that the policy for downturn LGD estimation for defaulted
         exposures relies on paragraph 193 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation, where it is clarified
         that the final LGD for defaulted exposure appropriate for economic downturn conditions
         should also include an appropriate MoC and where necessary potential additional unexpected
         losses during the recovery period referred to in Article 181(1)(h) of Regulation (EU)
         No 575/2013.
2.5 Downturn LGD estimation for one considered downturn period
     39.The requirements in section 4.3 set out the rules of how downturn LGD estimates should be
         calibrated for one specific downturn period under consideration. Paragraphs 22 to 25 of these
         GL specify how the relevant approach for the quantification of the calibration target for
         downturn LGD should be chosen. Basically, if an institution has observed data to specify the
         impact of the downturn period under consideration on the institution’s relevant loss data
         (which may also be external data), the downturn LGD should be calibrated based on the
         observed impact (i.e. section 5 should be applied). If, however, such observed data are not
         available, institutions should apply a type 2 methodology (i.e. the requirements in section 6
         should apply). In exceptional cases where an institution can justify to the satisfaction of the
                                                                                                        21

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         competent authority that a type 2 approach cannot be applied, the institution should use a
         type 3 approach, as described earlier in this chapter.
         Figure 3: Downturn LGD estimation for one considered downturn period
     40.Regardless of which of the approaches outlined above is used to quantify downturn LGD, there
         are two principles that institutions should take into account:
     Principle 1:
              “Where the approach used involves the estimation or analysis of different intermediate
              parameters, the aggregation of these intermediate parameters for the purpose of
              calibrating downturn LGD should start with the parameter where the highest impact is
              observed in accordance with paragraph 27 or estimated in accordance with paragraph 30
              and any additional impact observed or estimated on other parameters should be added
              where necessary.”
     41.The rationale for this principle is that it may be necessary under both type 1 as well as under
         type 2 approaches to aggregate the impact of a considered downturn period on different
         intermediate parameters, such as cure rate or recovery rate. The principle ensures that
         offsetting effects are not taken into account and provides more guidance related to the
         requirement that institutions should quantify downturn LGDs in a way that is coherent with
         the evidence found in the impact assessment for type 1 methodologies. The highest impact in
         this context should, for type 1 methodologies, refer to the highest relative change when
         comparing the evidence found in the impact assessment with the average value of each
         component.
42.It should be noted that the principle only determines the starting point of the institution’s
    considerations for the quantification of downturn LGD where impact on different components
    needs to be aggregated.
                                                                                                     22

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
Principle 2:
              “The downturn LGD estimates should not be biased by observed or estimated cash flows
              that are received with a significantly longer time lag than the period referred to in
              paragraph 156 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation and which might rather reflect an
              upturn or improved economic conditions following the considered downturn period.”
43.The rationale for this principle is that in fact, where realised LGDs are computed with respect to the
    time of default but with long recovery processes, compensation effects might absorb a potential
    downturn impact. Indeed, it could be the case that, whereas the date of default reflected downturn
    conditions, the assets may be sold for a higher price once economic conditions have recovered –
    effectively leading to an economic loss reflecting economic upturn rather than downturn
    conditions.
Example 4
The requirement to add additional impact where necessary is meant to ensure that all impact
observed or estimated on different components is covered by the final downturn LGD estimation.
One way of how institutions could ensure this in case of type 1 methodologies can be illustrated by
the following simplified example:
Assume the institution found evidence of:
                    i. an increase of about 2% in realised LGDs due to the downturn period under
                       consideration;
                   ii. a decrease of about 15% in annual recoveries due to the downturn period under
                       consideration.
For simplicity, assume that no evidence was found on the other components. In order to comply with
paragraph 28 (to provide a downturn LGD estimate coherent with the results of the impact
assessment), the institution could transfer the observed decrease in annual recoveries as a result of
the downturn period to all facilities in the reference data set (as defined in the EBA GL on PD and
LGD) that were not affected by the downturn period, and recalculate downturn LGD. The resulting
downturn LGD might already cover the impact observed on the realised LGDs. If not, the additional
impact observed should be added. There are, however, other possible ways institutions could ensure
that that all impact observed or estimated on different components is covered, e.g. the institution
could choose a model for calibrating downturn LGD based on model components and set the level of
the component under consideration to the impact observed or estimated and check whether the
resulting downturn LGD estimates cover for the impact observed on realised LGD.
                                                                                                       23

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
2.6 Downturn LGD estimation based on observed impact
     44.It is worth noting that the guidance laid down in these GL builds on the general presumption
         of the advanced IRB approach (i.e. where the institution uses own estimates of LGDs) where
         risk parameters are quantified based on observed data. Therefore, as a first step and in line
         with the hierarchy of approaches, an institution needs to assess whether for a type of exposure
         under consideration sufficient loss data are available to assess the impact of a considered
         downturn period identified in accordance with the RTS on economic downturn. If that is the
         case, the institution follows the guidance for downturn LGD estimation based on observed
         impact laid down in this section.
     45.In order to ensure that all relevant aspects of the economic loss calculated in accordance with
         subsection 6.3.1 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation are covered appropriately, the minimum
         components of such an impact assessment are prescribed in paragraph 27 of the GL. In detail,
         the proposed impact assessment requires institutions to analyse whether there is evidence of
         impact of the downturn period under consideration on the four following components, namely
         (i) elevated realised LGDs; (ii) decreased annual recoveries; (iii) decreased number of facilities
         returned to non-defaulted status in a predefined time horizon, which should be appropriate
         for the type of exposure and reflect the usual time to cure; and (iv) prolonged time in default.
     46. Regarding the first two components, the required analysis touches upon the issue on whether
         the impact of an economic downturn should be considered with respect to the date of default
         or with respect to the date of receiving the material share of the recovery cash flows. On the
         one hand, considering the realised LGDs with respect to the time in default is more consistent
         with the calculation of RWE amounts, where the expected loss is expressed as the product of
         PD and LGD, i.e. implying that it refers to the same reference point in time. On the other hand,
         considering the impact on annual recoveries per source of cash flow (regardless of the dates
         of default) might better reflect the economic loss appropriate for an economic downturn.
         Indeed, it could be the case that, although the date of default reflected downturn conditions,
         collateral may be sold for a higher price once economic conditions have recovered – effectively
         leading to collateral prices reflecting economic upturn rather than downturn conditions.
         Because of these considerations, the proposed impact assessment requires both types of
         analyses in paragraph 27(a), points (i) and (ii).
     47.Moreover, for the analysis in paragraph 27(a)(i) the data need to be split into two subsets. One
         set should contain all facilities which have reached their maximum time to recovery as defined
         in paragraph 156 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation or which have been closed before they
         reached this point in time. The other set should contain all incomplete recovery processes that
         have not reached their maximum time to recovery. In a second step, evidence of impact of the
         downturn period under consideration should be analysed separately for the set containing
         complete recovery processes and those that have reached their maximum time to recovery,
         and for the set containing incomplete recovery processes. For the latter set, the impact on the
         recovery pattern for each vintage of default should be analysed and may provide input for, in
         particular, the downturn LGD estimation for defaulted exposure.
                                                                                                         24

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     48.The analysis of the additional components set out in paragraph 27(a), points (iii) and (iv),
         namely the decreased number of facilities returned to non-defaulted status and the prolonged
         time in default respectively, ensures the inclusion of the potential impact of a considered
         downturn period which may not be measurable at the level of the average realised LGD or
         annual recoveries. Indeed, if, for example, an impact is measurable only with respect to a
         material increase of observed time in default, this analysis will ensure the incorporation of the
         downturn impact into the LGD estimation, for example by applying the increased time in
         default to the observations. The same principle applies to facilities returned to non-defaulted
         status.
     49.Paragraph 27(b) of the GL accounts for situations in which one or several of the outlined
         analyses cannot be meaningfully conducted due to insufficient coverage of loss data during
         one year of a multi-year downturn period. This should not be confused with a situation in which
         no data are available for the considered downturn period because of this period being too far
         back in time. However, in order to account for the issue of scarce data, the policy allows the
         merging of consecutive years of observations as long as it is deemed of benefit for the analysis.
     50.Finally, the last paragraph on the impact assessment requires that any lag between a downturn
         period and its potential impact on the relevant loss data has to be taken into account. Due to
         the individual situations regarding data availability as well as the specifics of a considered type
         of exposure, no guidance is set out regarding the length of the time lags that should be
         considered.
     51.The guidance regarding the calibration of downturn LGD for cases in which loss data are
         available to assess the impact of a considered downturn period on a considered calibration
         segment is laid down in section 5 of the final GL. Paragraph 28 clarifies that the resulting LGD
         estimation needs to be coherent with the outcome obtained from the impact analysis. In other
         words, the final downturn LGDs should appropriately account for the material impacts of a
         considered downturn period on (i) the realised LGDs; (ii) the annual recoveries; (ii) the facilities
         returned to non-defaulted status; and (iv) time in default. The policy leaves flexibility to
         institutions with respect to the detailed methodology applied for the purpose of calibration of
         downturn LGD based on results of the impact assessment. The rationale for this is that the EBA
         considers that there is no one-size-fits-all aggregation scheme for the results obtained from
         the analyses required in paragraph 27. Depending on the risk profile of the considered type of
         exposure it might be appropriate to choose the average LGD by vintage of defaults affected by
         the considered downturn period where this best reflects the results obtained from the impact
         assessment laid down in paragraph 27(a), points (i) to (iv). In another case, in particular where
         the average LGD would incorporate significant catch-up effects due to late recoveries when
         economic conditions improved (as outlined in paragraph 45 above), it might be more
         appropriate to base the downturn LGD estimation on the impact observed on annual
         recoveries per source of cash flow. The flexibility to select an appropriate methodology to
         calibrate downturn LGD includes the ability to use the ‘haircut approach’, outlined in section 6
         in the GL, as a methodology under section 5 of the GL.
     52.In order to reflect the material aspects addressed in the impact assessment in paragraph 27(a),
         points (i) to (iv), institutions should aim to continue reflecting the credit risk profile of the
                                                                                                          25

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         considered type of exposure. For example, setting a downturn haircut (based on observed loss
         data) on only the best-quality collateral based on materiality, in order to reflect the results
         obtained from the impact assessment, may not be a compliant approach, as it could lead to
         incentives to use less good-quality collateral.
     53.The impact analysis is particularly important to ensure that the long-run average LGD may be
         deemed appropriate as a downturn LGD estimate only when no impact of a considered
         downturn period can be observed on the relevant loss data and realised LGDs. The detailed
         conditions under which the long-run average LGD including the corresponding MoC may be
         appropriate for the final downturn LGD appropriate for an economic downturn are laid down
         in paragraph 29. It should be noted that only if observed data are available for a considered
         downturn period may the long-run average LGD (under certain conditions) be considered an
         appropriate downturn LGD estimate. In particular, it is required that the MoC under
         consideration cover for all additional elements of uncertainty related to the identified
         downturn periods, including deficiencies identified under Category A in accordance with
         paragraph 37(a) of the GL on PD and LGD estimation, and under Category B in accordance with
         paragraph 37(b) of the GL on PD and LGD estimation.
2.7 Downturn LGD estimation based on estimated impact
General description
     54.If no sufficient data are available to calibrate downturn LGD in accordance with the proposed
         policy described above, institutions should aim to calibrate their downturn LGDs based on the
         estimated impact of the downturn period under consideration. However, institutions should
         estimate that impact by applying either a haircut or an extrapolation approach. Where
         institutions have observed data for only a certain intermediate parameter or risk driver
         reflecting the impact of the downturn period under consideration, institutions should estimate
         the realised historical LGDs (which they have not observed) affected by the downturn period
         under consideration by combining the observed impact on the intermediate parameter or risk
         driver with the estimated impact of other intermediate parameters resulting from a haircut
         and/or extrapolation approach. As stated above, both approaches can be used to estimate
         unobserved realised LGDs or intermediate parameters or risk drivers from the past.
     55.The haircut approach provides an estimate indirectly by adjusting (i.e. applying a haircut to)
         the input variables of the LGD model. Thus, a haircut approach relies on the functional
         relationship that is established in the model between realised losses and certain input
         parameters. In particular, in order to apply a haircut approach, this functional relationship
         needs to describe the dependency of the LGD estimate on several risk drivers, of which at least
         one is an economic factor. This might especially be the case when collateral values are used as
         risk drivers . The downturn LGD estimate is then computed by applying the LGD model where
         the above-mentioned economic factor (or even factors) is/are adjusted to reflect the level
         observed in the downturn period under consideration. The haircut approach may equally be
         applied to intermediate risk parameters or risk drivers.
                                                                                                     26

 GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
      56.The extrapolation approach is a methodology to enable the institution to estimate downturn
          LGDs based on estimated historical loss data (based on backward extrapolation). This approach
          estimates ‘realised’ historical LGDs, intermediate parameters or even risk drivers that serve as
          an input into the LGD estimation model under consideration, by extrapolating them
          backwards in time based on the statistical dependency between the realised LGDs,
          intermediate parameters or risk drivers and the relevant economic factors. It is worth noting
          that this dependency needs to be established using the observed loss data.
      57.The main difference from the haircut approach is that the extrapolation approach derives the
          calibration target for downturn LGD based on the RDS and a statistical model for the
          dependency between realised LGDs (aggregated at different points in time) and economic
          factors, whereas the haircut approach derives the calibration target for downturn LGD by
          applying an existing LGD estimation model to the current exposures using input variables
          adjusted to reflect downturn conditions.
      58.Finally, it is worth noting that, when the haircut or extrapolation approach is applied, a strictly
          positive Category A MoC8 needs to be applied to reflect the related uncertainty with respect
          to the estimated impact. This is laid down in paragraph 35 of the GL.
Haircut approach
      59.Paragraph 31 of these GL describes the haircut approach and sets out the conditions under
          which institutions should apply this approach. Under this approach, the impact of a considered
          downturn period on the realised LGDs, intermediate parameters or risk drivers of a considered
          type of exposure is estimated by applying the LGD model using adjusted input parameters.
          Therefore, a precondition for the applicability of this approach is that the LGD model takes one
          or several economic factors as direct or transformed input. Then, when the LGD model is
          applied, these economic factors are adjusted to reflect the values of the economic factors
          observed in economic downturn conditions instead of applying the current values of these
          economic factors).
      60.More formally, given an LGD model as a function <U+0001D453> where <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D452><U+0001D460><U+0001D461> = <U+0001D453>(<U+0001D465>1 , <U+0001D465>2 , … , <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>1 , <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>2 , … ),
          where:
             <U+F0B7>    <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D452><U+0001D460><U+0001D461> is an estimation of the realised LGDs given current values of the input variables;
             <U+F0B7>    <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>1 , <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>2 , … are risk drivers for realised LGD that are economic factors;
             <U+F0B7>    <U+0001D465>1 , <U+0001D465>2 , … are other risk drivers for realised LGD.
              In order to estimate the impact of a particular downturn period on realised LGDs for a
              calibration segment under consideration and related to a set of economic factors <U+0001D452><U+0001D450><U+0001D456> , all
              economic factors that are inputs for the application of the LGD model are adjusted to reflect
8
  See section 4.4 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation for a description of Category A MoC.
                                                                                                         27

 GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
              the levels observed during the downturn period under consideration, when applying the
              model <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447> = <U+0001D453>(<U+0001D465>1 , <U+0001D465>2 , … , <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>           ^2 , … ), where:
                                                   ^1 , <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>
             <U+F0B7>    <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447> is the downturn LGD estimate for a given exposure;
             <U+F0B7>    ^1 , <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>
                  <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>     ^  2 , … are economic factors adjusted to downturn conditions (i.e. after applying the
                  haircut);
             <U+F0B7>    <U+0001D465>1 , <U+0001D465>2 , … are other risk drivers.
              For simplicity, no time dimension has been introduced in the example above. It should,
              however, be noted that the risk drivers <U+0001D465>1 , <U+0001D465>2 , … relate to the point in time when the model
              is applied 9 (and the specification of the corresponding risk driver), whereas <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>           ^2 , …
                                                                                                     ^1 , <U+0001D452><U+0001D450>
              relate to the point in time when the downturn conditions have been observed on these
              factors. Note that the type of LGD model described above does not need to be a regression
              model. As an example of how to apply the haircut approach, for illustration purposes the
              following simplified model design for a mortgage portfolio could be considered
              (Example 5).
9
  Please note that this is possible only if they are not material components of economic loss, because otherwise
paragraph 30(b) of the GL requires that they reflect a potential downturn impact.
                                                                                                              28

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
           Example 5
                                                                         LGD estimation model
                                                                         (PPD = Probability of
                                                                         possession)
                                                                          Downturn LGD estimation
       The above example could relate in more detail relate to Example 1 where the institution would
       have identified two downturn periods to be analysed for the considered type of exposure:
       In this example the institution has no observed loss data related to this downturn period in
       1990-1991. As the house price index is a transformed input into the institution’s model for
       LGD estimation, and is also a relevant economic factor related to a type of collateral for the
       considered type of exposure, the institution would need to apply a haircut approach according
       to the policy in paragraph 30 of the GLs.
       In more detail the institution may have a LGD model which differentiates facilities by their risk
       of loss in case of a default using the following scoring formula:
            i. <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437> <U+0001D446><U+0001D450><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452> = <U+0001D443><U+0001D443><U+0001D437> · [(<U+0001D438><U+0001D434><U+0001D437> - <U+0001D45A><U+0001D456><U+0001D45B>(<U+0001D438><U+0001D434><U+0001D437>, <U+0001D445><U+0001D445> · <U+0001D450><U+0001D462><U+0001D45F><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461> <U+0001D440><U+0001D458><U+0001D461> <U+0001D443><U+0001D45F><U+0001D456><U+0001D450><U+0001D452>))/<U+0001D438><U+0001D434><U+0001D437>]              where  the
                current market price is achieved by an indexed valuation which adjusts the market
                price validat at the time when the according mortgage has been granted (or at another
                more recent point in time where the market value has been individually (re-)assessed)
                to reflect a current market price.
                                                                                                        29

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
           Example 5 – cont.
       The recovery rates could be estimated dependent on certain risk drivers, e.g. the location of
       the underlying property:
       As previously pointed out, downturn LGD estimation is part of the risk quantification, thus the
       institution would need to provide two calibrations in relation to the considered LGD model:
       For the purpose of quantifying downturn LGD (LGD_DT) the institution would now estimate
       downturn LGD by way of applying the formula for the LGD Score, however using ‘downturn
       market prices’ instead of current market prices:
                                    (<U+0001D438><U+0001D434><U+0001D437> - <U+0001D45A><U+0001D456><U+0001D45B>(<U+0001D438><U+0001D434><U+0001D437>, <U+0001D445><U+0001D445> · <U+0001D451><U+0001D45C><U+0001D464><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461><U+0001D462><U+0001D45F><U+0001D45B> <U+0001D440><U+0001D458><U+0001D461> <U+0001D443><U+0001D45F><U+0001D456><U+0001D450><U+0001D452>))/
           <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437> <U+0001D446><U+0001D450><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452> = <U+0001D443><U+0001D443><U+0001D437> · [                                                      <U+0001D438><U+0001D434><U+0001D437> ]
       Where the <U+0001D451><U+0001D45C><U+0001D464><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461><U+0001D462><U+0001D45F><U+0001D45B> <U+0001D440><U+0001D458><U+0001D461> <U+0001D443><U+0001D45F><U+0001D456><U+0001D450><U+0001D452> is achieved by adjusting the <U+0001D450><U+0001D462><U+0001D45F><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461> <U+0001D440><U+0001D458><U+0001D461> <U+0001D443><U+0001D45F><U+0001D456><U+0001D450><U+0001D452> according
       to the severity that has been identified in accordance with the RTS on economic downturn,
       which in this case could be the house-price index drop observed in 1990:
                              <U+0001D451><U+0001D45C><U+0001D464><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461><U+0001D462><U+0001D45F><U+0001D45B> <U+0001D440><U+0001D458><U+0001D461> <U+0001D443><U+0001D45F><U+0001D456><U+0001D450><U+0001D452> = <U+0001D450><U+0001D462><U+0001D45F><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461> <U+0001D440><U+0001D458><U+0001D461> <U+0001D443><U+0001D45F><U+0001D456><U+0001D450><U+0001D452> · <U+0001D46F><U+0001D482><U+0001D48A><U+0001D493><U+0001D484><U+0001D496><U+0001D495>
       It should be noted that, although detailed, this example is still simplified, as, for example,
       according to paragraph 30 of the final GL the institution would need to ensure that the applied
       methodology for downturn LGD estimation appropriately reflects a potential downturn effect
       on all relevant components of economic loss. The example above, however, considered only
       recoveries. Where necessary the institution could for example estimate the impact on the cure
       rate (i.e. the rate of exposures returning to the performing portfolio) by applying an
       extrapolation approach.
                                                                                                      30

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     61.The policy in paragraph 30 requires the use of a haircut approach if both of the following
         conditions are fulfilled:
                i. There are not sufficient data to calibrate downturn LGDs based on observed impact
                   on loss data (i.e. the policy laid down in paragraph 24 applies).
               ii. An economic factor that has been identified as a relevant economic factor in
                   accordance with Article 2 of the RTS on economic downturn relates to a relevant type
                   of collateral for the type of exposure under consideration and is a direct or
                   transformed input of the institution’s model for LGD estimation.
     62.Two remarks are important to make. First, it should be noted that the mandatory use of the
         haircut approach is related to the situation where the LGD estimation model takes as one of
         its inputs the economic factor related to a relevant collateral type for the type of exposure
         under consideration (e.g. market values or a market index). In this case, the policy prescribes
         that the actual haircut (i.e. the adjustment of the economic factor which serves as input into
         the model to reflect downturn conditions) should be based on the most severe observed value
         of the market price, or market price index, in accordance with the specification of the severity
         of an economic downturn in accordance with Article 3 of the RTS on economic downturn.
         Second, institutions may also apply a haircut approach where applicable, i.e. where an
         economic factor is a direct or transformed input to the LGD model and is not related to the
         relevant collateral types to calibrate downturn LGD estimates. If for example the GDP is a direct
         or transformed input into the LGD model, a haircut approach may be used as well, but it is not
         mandatory.
     63.Finally, it should be mentioned that institutions that have to quantify LGD based on the
         observed impact of an economic downturn on loss data, as set out in paragraph 23 of the GL,
         are not prohibited from using haircut approaches for the purpose of calibrating their LGD
         model to the quantification of downturn LGD estimations achieved in accordance with
         paragraph 23 of the GL. An institution that has observed loss data affected by an economic
         downturn for a type of exposure under consideration needs to calculate haircuts such that the
         resulting downturn LGD estimates reflect the observed impact from an economic downturn
         (i.e. to reach the calibration target) in accordance with paragraph 28 of the GL, whereas an
         institution that does not have such data needs to consider haircuts in accordance with the
         downturn severities observed in respect of the corresponding economic factors in accordance
         with paragraph 31 of the GL, and add an additional MoC.
     Extrapolation approach
     64.Paragraph 32 of the final GL describes the extrapolation approach and sets out requirements
         for the application of this approach. For the purpose of these GL, ‘the extrapolation approach’
         refers to a methodology to estimate realised LGDs, intermediate parameters or even risk
         drivers that serve as an input into the LGD estimation model under consideration. These
         estimated realised LGDs (or intermediate parameters or risk drivers) are extrapolated
         backwards in time based on the dependency of the realised LGDs (or intermediate parameters
                                                                                                        31

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         or risk drivers) on relevant economic factors. This dependency should be established based on
         observed loss data. The graph in Example 6 illustrates the concept of the extrapolation
         approach, where the red vertical line illustrates the time from which onwards the institution
         has reliable data, and the red horizontal line illustrates the resulting downturn LGD estimation.
     Example 6
     As an example of an extrapolation approach, an institution could develop a statistical model for
     the dependency of
                        i. average yearly realised LGD values <U+0001D44C><U+0001D461> and
                       ii. economic factors <U+0001D452><U+0001D461>1 , <U+0001D452><U+0001D461>2 , … which should be identified according to the RTS on
                           economic downturn, for the considered type of exposure, e.g. using a linear
                           regression:
                                 <U+0001D44C><U+0001D461> = <U+0001D736> + <U+0001D737><U+0001D7CF><U+0001D7CF> <U+0001D486><U+0001D7CF><U+0001D495>-<U+0001D48D><U+0001D7CF> + <U+0001D737><U+0001D7CF><U+0001D7D0> <U+0001D486><U+0001D7CF><U+0001D495>-<U+0001D48D><U+0001D7D0> + <U+0001D737><U+0001D48C><U+0001D48F> <U+0001D486><U+0001D48C><U+0001D495>-<U+0001D48D><U+0001D48F> + <U+0001D73A>
               <U+0001D457>
     where <U+0001D452><U+0001D460> , <U+0001D457> = 1, … , , … , <U+0001D458> describe the value of the jth economic factor in years. Possible time lags
     are considered with a lag of t minus <U+0001D459>1 … . <U+0001D459><U+0001D45B> (where t is the point in time at which the realised LGD
     rate is assessed).
                                                                                                          32

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     65.The extrapolation approach has, however, been perceived as potentially leading to less
         conservative results and might also suffer from uncertainty about whether or not the derived
         dependency will also apply under non-observed downturn conditions. Therefore, a
         requirement is added in paragraph 35 to cover the additional uncertainty related to the use of
         the extrapolation approach with an additional MoC.
      Example 7
      Considering the previous example, it could be assumed for simplicity that the methodology applied
      for the regression discards all but one economic factor, e.g. GDP of the past year. In this case, the
      error of this model could be assessed as <U+0001D44C>^0 - <U+0001D44C>0 for a chosen point in time <U+0001D461>0 (where the internal
      loss would need to be extrapolated) and the following could be used as an estimator for the variance
      of the residuals (under the assumption that the residuals are normally distributed), where n denotes
      the number of observations (points in time) used for the regression:
                                                                    <U+0001D45B>
                                                              1                    2
                                  <U+0001D460><U+0001D44C>2 = <U+0001D449><U+0001D44E><U+0001D45F> ( Yˆ0 <U+F02D> Y0 ) =         <U+2211> (<U+0001D44C><U+0001D456> - Yˆi )
                                                            <U+0001D45B>-2
                                                                   <U+0001D456>=1
          A confidence interval for the extrapolated realised LGDs in year 0 based on the regression could
          be derived as follows:
                                                    1      (<U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D443>-1 - <U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D443>¯¯¯¯¯¯ )2
                                   <U+0001D460><U+0001D44C>2 = <U+0001D460><U+0001D716>2 (1 +     + <U+0001D441>
                                                    <U+0001D45B> <U+2211><U+0001D456>=1(<U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D443><U+0001D456> - <U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D443>    ¯¯¯¯¯¯)2 )
          The confidence interval around the extrapolated realised LGDs could be assessed as (only upper
          interval shown):
                                             <U+0001D43C> = ( Y0 + <U+0001D460><U+0001D44C> · <U+0001D461>1-<U+0001D6FC>,<U+0001D45B>-2 )
                                                                 2
                                      <U+0001D6FC>
where <U+0001D461>1-<U+0001D6FC>,<U+0001D45B>-2 denotes the 1 - 2 percentile of the Student t-distribution, which would then have to
             2
be taken into account in the quantification of a Category A MoC for that extrapolation.
     66.It may be the case that only for a major share of economic loss the impact of a considered
         downturn period can be estimated by a haircut or extrapolation approach. There may,
         however, be other, less significant (but not immaterial), components of economic loss where
         the impact of the downturn period under consideration can be estimated by neither a haircut
         nor an extrapolation approach. In order not to push these cases under the scope of application
         of section 7, the EBA considers it appropriate to allow an estimation of the impact on these
         less significant components based on observed data from a different period than from the
         downturn period under consideration, yet still with the objective of estimating the impact of
         the downturn period under consideration. This is included in paragraph 32(b)(ii) of the draft
         GL.
                                                                                                      33

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     67.The approach described in paragraph 32(b)(ii) of the GL should be limited to specific cases.
         Therefore, the policy sets out several restrictions on the use of this approach, clarifying that
         the approach may be followed only:
                      i. for intermediate parameters and risk drivers (e.g. cure rates or recovery rates) and
                     ii. where the major shares of economic loss are covered already by a haircut or
                          extrapolation approach and
                    iii. where no statistically significant dependency can be established on the
                          intermediate parameter or risk driver under consideration and
                    iv. where the intermediate parameter or risk driver under consideration shows low
                          volatility over the time period for which it has been observed.
     68.However, where this version of the extrapolation approach is used, institutions should quantify
         the Category A MoC taking into account the relation between the value(s) of the economic
         factor(s) underlying the downturn period under consideration identified in accordance with
         Article 3 of the RTS and the value of these economic factors observed under other adverse
         economic conditions as referred to in paragraph 32(b)(ii).
          Example 8
          As an example, to quantify a category A MoC, institutions could:
                 i.     calculate the average of the observed realisation of the parameter or risk driver
                        under consideration for the period identified in accordance with
                        paragraph 32(b)(ii);
                ii.     calculate the ratio between
                   <U+F0B7>     the most severe value(s) of the economic factor(s) underlying the considered
                         downturn period identified in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation xx/xxx [RTS
                         on economic downturn] and
                   <U+F0B7>     the most severe value(s) of the relevant economic factor(s) observed in the period
                         referred to in paragraph 32(b)(ii);
               iii.     quantify the Category A MoC based on the (absolute) difference between:
                   <U+F0B7>     the value obtained when multiplying the average of the observed realisation of the
                         parameter or risk driver under consideration as referred to in sub-point (i) by the
                         ratio specified in sub-point (ii) and
                   <U+F0B7>     the estimation of the parameter under consideration in accordance with
                         paragraph 32(b).
                                                                                                           34

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
          Example 8 – cont.
2.8 Downturn LGD estimation where observed or estimated impact
is not available
     69.Section 7 (paragraph 36) of these GL allows for exceptional cases: where neither the approach
         outlined in section 5 nor the approach laid down in section 6 can be applied, and where
         institutions can justify to the satisfaction of the competent authority that none of the
         approaches is applicable, the institution may apply any alternative methodology to calibrate
         downturn LGD estimates. Where this approach needs to be applied, the institution can rely
         only on observed loss data during favourable economic conditions for the type of exposure
         under consideration (as otherwise the approach set out in section 5 would be applicable). As
         the institution applies a calibration methodology which might be more favourable than those
         outlined in section 6, it needs to quantify an MoC in relation to this downturn LGD estimation
         such that the final downturn LGD estimate including MoC is higher than or equal to the long-
         run average LGD plus 15 percentage points. In any case, the final downturn LGD estimate
         should be lower than or equal to 105%.
                                                                                                     35

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
2.9 Reference value
     70.Finally, it should be noted that section 8 (paragraph 37) describes the calculation of a
         reference value that acts as a non-binding challenger to downturn LGD estimation at
         calibration level, irrespective of the methodology used.
2.10 Remarks
     71.It should be clear from the policy as well as from the rationale outlined above that there is a
         hierarchy of the approaches to quantification of downturn LGD estimates. This hierarchy is
         outlined in paragraphs 23 to 25 of the GL. Where loss data affected by a downturn period are
         available, the institution needs to follow the policy set out in section 5 of the final GL.
         Otherwise, the institution needs to follow the policy set out in section 6 and only in very
         exceptional cases should downturn LGD estimates be calibrated in accordance with section 7.
         This approach should make downturn LGD estimation more transparent and comparable than
         in the past. At the same time, it is aimed at providing sufficient flexibility for the institutions.
         The policy will make it easier to distinguish risk-based variability in applied LGD parameters
         from variability stemming from other sources.
     72.The policy also accounts for situations in which the observed impact of an economic downturn
         on the relevant loss data is zero or near zero. In addition, it clarifies the terminology by
         distinguishing between the identified economic downturn for a type of exposure under
         consideration and its impact, i.e. by noting that, if the relevant loss data show no impact of an
         economic downturn, it does not necessarily mean that there is no economic downturn or that
         there will be no impact in the future. Although there might be cases in which the identified
         economic factors do not show a cyclical pattern, the RTS on economic downturn provide a
         clear definition that works independently of such patterns (which could also just reflect very
         long cycles). Moreover, it should be noted that the notion of the duration provided in Article 3
         of the RTS on economic downturn is particularly relevant to applying the policy laid down in
         paragraph 27 of the final GL and the notion of severity is particularly relevant to applying the
         policy laid down in paragraph 31 of the GL.
     73.As mentioned before, flexibility is left with regard to the calibration methodology as long as
         the calibration target, i.e. the downturn LGD, complies with the rules set out in these GL.
                                                                                                          36

 GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
2.11 Illustrative example of a downturn LGD estimation for an
obligor rating system in the retail exposure class
In this example, the final downturn LGD including the MoC could be expressed as follows:
                              <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D434>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>1 ) , <U+0001D453><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F> <U+0001D450><U+0001D44E><U+0001D459><U+0001D456><U+0001D44F><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D461><U+0001D456><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B> <U+0001D460><U+0001D452><U+0001D454><U+0001D45A><U+0001D452><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461> <U+0001D434>
          <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D439><U+0001D456><U+0001D45B><U+0001D44E><U+0001D459> = {
                              <U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D435>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>2 ) , <U+0001D453><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45F> <U+0001D450><U+0001D44E><U+0001D459><U+0001D456><U+0001D44F><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D461><U+0001D456><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45B> <U+0001D460><U+0001D452><U+0001D454><U+0001D45A><U+0001D452><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461> <U+0001D435>
where it is assumed that
          <U+0001D434><U+0001D463><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D454><U+0001D452><U+0001D434> (<U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D434>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>1 ) )
          = <U+0001D45A><U+0001D44E><U+0001D465><U+0001D434> ((<U+0001D434><U+0001D463><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D454><U+0001D452><U+0001D434> (<U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D434>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>1 ) ), <U+0001D434><U+0001D463><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D454><U+0001D452><U+0001D434> (<U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D434>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>2 ) ))
<U+0001D434><U+0001D463><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D454><U+0001D452><U+0001D435> (<U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D435>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>2 ) ) = <U+0001D45A><U+0001D44E><U+0001D465><U+0001D435> ((<U+0001D434><U+0001D463><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D454><U+0001D452><U+0001D435> (<U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D435>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>1 ) ), <U+0001D434><U+0001D463><U+0001D452><U+0001D45F><U+0001D44E><U+0001D454><U+0001D452><U+0001D435> (<U+0001D43F><U+0001D43A><U+0001D437><U+0001D437><U+0001D447>(<U+0001D435>,<U+0001D437><U+0001D447><U+0001D443>2 ) ))
                                                                                            37

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
3. Guidelines
 EBA/GL/2019/03
 6 March 2019
Guidelines on the estimation of LGD
appropriate for an economic downturn
(‘Downturn LGD estimation’)
                                                                  38

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
1. Compliance and reporting
obligations
Status of these guidelines
1. This document contains guidelines issued pursuant to Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No
     1093/201010. In accordance with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent
     authorities and financial institutions must make every effort to comply with the guidelines.
2. Guidelines set the EBA view of appropriate supervisory practices within the European System
     of Financial Supervision or of how Union law should be applied in a particular area. Competent
     authorities as defined in Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 to whom guidelines apply
     should comply by incorporating them into their practices as appropriate (e.g. by amending their
     legal framework or their supervisory processes), including where guidelines are directed
     primarily at institutions.
Reporting requirements
3. According to Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent authorities must notify
     the EBA as to whether they comply or intend to comply with these guidelines, or otherwise
     with reasons for non-compliance, by ([dd.mm.yyyy]). In the absence of any notification by this
     deadline, competent authorities will be considered by the EBA to be non-compliant.
     Notifications should be sent by submitting the form available on the EBA website to
     compliance@eba.europa.eu with the reference ‘EBA/GL/2019/03’. Notifications should be
     submitted by persons with appropriate authority to report compliance on behalf of their
     competent authorities. Any change in the status of compliance must also be reported to EBA.
4. Notifications will be published on the EBA website, in line with Article 16(3).
10
   Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing
Commission Decision 2009/78/EC, (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p.12).
                                                                                                             39

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
2. Subject matter, scope and definitions
Subject matter
5. These guidelines specify the requirements for the estimation of loss given default (LGD)
     appropriate for an economic downturn in accordance with Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3,
     Section 6 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Article 181 of that Regulation and the EBA final draft
     regulatory technical standards on the IRB assessment methodology EBA/RTS/2016/03 [RTS on
     IRB assessment methodology] of 21 July 2016 as well as EBA final draft regulatory standards on
     the specification of an economic downturn EBA /RTS/2018/04 [RTS on economic downturn] of
     16 November 2018. These guidelines should be considered as an amendment of EBA on PD
     estimation, LGD estimation and the treatment of defaulted exposures EBA/GL/2017/16 [EBA
     GL on PD and LGD] published on 20 November 2017.
Scope of application
6. These guidelines apply in relation to the IRB Approach in accordance with Part Three, Title II,
     Chapter 3 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 for all methods based on own estimates of LGD. The
     use of own estimates of LGD appropriate for an economic downturn, in accordance with these
     guidelines, is subject to supervisory approval in accordance with Article 144 of Regulation (EU)
     No 575/2013. These guidelines do not apply to the calculation of own funds requirements for
     dilution risk in accordance with Article 157 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
Addressees
7. These guidelines are addressed to competent authorities as defined in point (i) of Article 4(2)
     of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 and to financial institutions as defined in Article 4(1) of
     Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
Definitions
8. Unless otherwise specified, terms used and defined in in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and
     Directive 2013/36/EU and in [EBA GL on PD and LGD] have the same meaning in the guidelines.
     In addition, for the purposes of these guidelines, the following definitions apply:
                                                          Quantification of downturn LGD covers all
                                                          elements of the quantification of downturn
 Quantification of downturn LGD                           LGD including the quantification of the
                                                          calibration target, the quantification of the
                                                          resulting downturn LGD estimates at grade and
                                                                                                      40

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                          pool level and the quantification of the margin
                                                          of conservatism (MoC).
                                                          The term calibration of downturn LGD in the
                                                          context of these guidelines refers to the
 Calibration of downturn LGD
                                                          quantification of the calibration target at the
                                                          relevant level.
                                                          These are the LGD estimates appropriate for an
                                                          economic downturn at the grade or pool level
 Downturn LGD estimates
                                                          after calibration but before the application of
                                                          MoC.
3. Implementation
Date of application
9. These guidelines apply from 1 January 2021. Institutions should incorporate the requirements
     of these guidelines in their rating systems by that time, but competent authorities may
     accelerate the timeline of this transition at their discretion.
First application of these Guidelines
10. The internal validation function of institution should verify the changes which are applied to
     the rating systems as a result of the application of these guidelines, consistently with EBA final
     draft regulatory technical standards on the IRB assessment methodology EBA/RTS/2016/03
     [RTS on IRB assessment methodology] of 21 July 2016 and the classification of the changes in
     accordance with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 529/201411.
11. Institutions that need to obtain prior permission from competent authorities in accordance
     with Article 143(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 529/2014 for the
     changes in the rating systems required to incorporate these guidelines for the first time by the
     deadline referred to in paragraph 9 should agree with their competent authorities the final
     deadline for submitting the application for such prior permission.
12. Prior to the application of these guidelines, institutions need to identify the relevant downturn
     periods for the type of exposure under consideration in accordance with EBA submitted [RTS
     on economic downturn]. The guidelines will be adapted, where relevant, when the RTS on
     economic downturn are published in their final version in the OJ.
                                                                                                        41

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
4. General requirements on downturn
LGD estimation
     13. For the purpose of quantifying LGDs that are appropriate for an economic downturn,
         institutions should apply all definitions and all requirements set out in Section 4, Section 6,
         Section 7, Section 8 and Section 9 of the EBA Guidelines on PD estimation, LGD estimation
         and the treatment of defaulted exposures (EBA/GL/2017/16) of 20/11/2017 (EBA GL on PD
         and LGD estimation) that are relevant for this purpose.
     14. In addition to paragraph 13, for the purpose of quantifying downturn LGD institutions
         should apply the following requirements specific to downturn LGD estimates by facility
         grade or pool:
               (a) calibrate downturn LGD at least at the same level at which institutions calculate
                    the corresponding long-run average LGD for the purpose of calibrating LGD in
                    accordance with paragraph 161 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation].
               (b) split the set of facilities covered by the same LGD model into as many different
                    calibration segments as needed where each calibration segment carries a
                    significantly different loss profile and might thus be affected differently by different
                    downturn periods; for this purpose, institutions should at least consider the
                    appropriateness of introducing calibration segments that cover material shares of
                    exposure in different geographical areas, in different industry sectors and, for retail
                    exposures, of different product types;
     15. Where institutions identify multiple downturn periods in accordance with the final draft
         RTS on economic downturn submitted by EBA [RTS on economic downturn],
               (a) they should perform each of the steps in the following sequence:
                   (i) calibrate downturn LGD for each identified downturn period in accordance with
                       Section 4.3 for each calibration segment;
                  (ii) for each of those downturn periods, apply the resulting downturn LGD estimates
                       to their current non-defaulted exposures of the type of exposures under
                       consideration and at the time of calibration;
                 (iii) choose the period as finally relevant downturn period that results in the highest
                       average downturn LGD, including final MoC as set out in paragraph 45 of the
                       [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation], on a considered calibration segment of their
                       current non-defaulted exposures as referred to in (ii). Institutions should then
                       use the resulting downturn LGDs based on the finally relevant downturn period
                       for each calibration segment to comply with paragraph 181 (b) CRR.
                 (iv) in case that institutions can calibrate downturn LGD in accordance with Section
                       5 or Section 6 for at least one downturn period but they are unable to quantify
                       downturn LGD in accordance with Section 5 or Section 6 for one or several other
                       downturn periods, consider only the estimates based on Section 5 or Section 6,
                       and add appropriate Category A MoC in accordance with paragraph 37(a) of
                                                                                                          42

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                       [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] to the final downturn LGD estimates to cover
                       for the downturn periods where sufficient and relevant loss data to assess or
                       estimate the impact is not available;
               (b) In derogation to paragraph 15(a)(i), institutions do not need to provide a calibration
                   of downturn LGD for a considered calibration segment for downturn periods
                   identified in accordance with the [RTS on economic downturn] where institutions
                   can provide evidence that the according economic factors are not relevant for the
                   considered calibration segment.
4.1 Requirements that apply to the final downturn LGD estimates
     16. For the purpose of ensuring that the resulting downturn LGDs are used if they are more
         conservative than the according long-run average LGDs in line with Article 181(1)(b) of
         Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, institutions should apply the following:
               (a) where institutions use separate estimation methodologies for long-run average
                   LGD and downturn LGD, compare their final downturn LGDs used for calibration
                   plus the according final MoC as set out in paragraph 45 of the [EBA GL on PD and
                   LGD estimation], to their long-run average LGDs plus the according final MoC as set
                   out in paragraph 45 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] at the level where
                   the long-run average LGD is calculated for the purpose of calibrating LGD in
                   accordance with paragraph 161 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation];
               (b) where institutions set a single LGD estimate, which involves a long-run average LGD
                   estimation and a downturn adjustment added to the long-run average LGD
                   estimation, they should ensure that the final MoC as set out in paragraph 45 of the
                   [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] on the downturn LGD estimates encompasses
                   the uncertainties stemming from both the long-run average LGD estimation and
                   the calculation of the downturn adjustment.
     17. For models with risk drivers sensitive to the economic cycle, institutions should ensure that
         the resulting downturn LGD estimates are not unduly sensitive to changes in economic
         cycle. For this purpose, institutions should do all of the following:
               (a) analyse the difference between the distribution of exposures over facility grades
                   or pools, or over appropriate intervals in case of continuous facility scales, of the
                   current portfolio and the likely distribution of the current portfolio impacted by the
                   relevant downturn period selected in accordance with paragraph 15,
               (b) if there is a substantial difference as a result of the analysis in (a), institutions
                   should apply an adjustment to their downturn LGD estimates to limit the capital
                   impact of an economic downturn in accordance with Article 181(1)(b) of Regulation
                   (EU) No 575/2013.
                                                                                                       43

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     18. Institutions should compare the final downturn LGD with the reference value calculated in
         accordance with Section 8 on the according RDS and calculated at least at the level of
         calibration segments. Institutions should justify any material difference between the final
         downturn LGD and the reference value.
     19. When comparing the final downturn LGD with the reference value in line with paragraph
         18, institutions should take into account all of the following:
               (a) A material difference between the final downturn LGD plus final MoC as set out in
                   paragraph 45 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation](s) and the reference value
                   can be justified if the period of losses identified by the reference value does not
                   stem from a - potentially unidentified - downturn period or if the difference is due
                   to the minimum MoC requirement in paragraph 36(b) where the downturn LGD is
                   based on the methodology in Section 7. In case that the underlying downturn LGD
                   is based on the methodology in Section 5, institutions may use the evidence
                   gathered from the impact assessment in paragraph 27.
               (b) If the material difference between the final downturn LGD and the reference value
                   cannot be justified, institutions should re-assess their quantification of downturn
                   LGD ensuring in particular that the downturn periods have been identified
                   comprehensively and that, where intermediate parameters are used, the impact of
                   the relevant downturn period observed (based on Section 5) or estimated (based
                   on Section 6) on intermediate parameters has been aggregated adequately. After
                   the institution has re-assessed its quantification of downturn LGD, and the
                   methodology is assessed to be adequate, a material difference from the reference
                   value can be explained.
4.2 Downturn LGD estimation for defaulted exposures
     20. For downturn LGD estimation for defaulted exposures, institutions should use the same
         downturn period as identified for the corresponding non-defaulted exposures.
     21. For downturn LGD estimation for defaulted exposures for the downturn period referred to
         in paragraph 20, institutions should comply with all of the following:
         (a) The downturn component of LGD estimation for defaulted exposures as referred to in
               paragraph 193(b)(i) of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] should be quantified by
               either:
               (i) calibrating downturn LGD for the defaulted exposures under consideration for each
                   reference date in accordance with Section 4.3 by inferring the downturn
                   component of the LGD in default for each reference date based on the difference
                   between the downturn LGD estimates and ELBE; or
              (ii) first calibrating downturn LGD in accordance with Section 4.3 for the defaulted
                   exposures under consideration for the moment of default and subsequently
                   inferring the downturn component of the LGD in default at other reference dates
                                                                                                     44

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                   based on the difference between the downturn LGD estimates at the moment of
                   default and ELBE at the moment of default.
         (b) In order to comply with paragraph 21(a)(ii), institutions may use the downturn
               component of the LGD estimates for non-defaulted exposures instead of the downturn
               component for defaulted exposures at the moment of default where the institution can
               provide evidence that this results in more conservative estimates.
         (c) In order to comply with paragraph 21(b) and where institutions use separate
               estimation methodologies for long-run average and downturn LGD in accordance with
               paragraph 16(a), the downturn component of the LGD estimates for non-defaulted
               exposures may be inferred by considering the difference between the resulting
               downturn LGD estimates and the corresponding long-run average LGDs taking into
               account paragraph 193 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation].
4.3 Downturn LGD estimation for a considered downturn period
     22. For the purpose of calibrating downturn LGD for each considered downturn period
         identified in accordance with Regulation (EU) xx/xx [RTS on economic downturn],
         institutions should use one of the three types of approaches set out in Section 5, Section 6
         and Section 7 of these guidelines in accordance with the hierarchy set out in paragraphs 23
         to 25 below.
     23. Where institutions have sufficient and relevant loss data to conduct the impact analysis set
         out in paragraph 27, they should calibrate downturn LGD for the considered downturn
         period in accordance with Section 5 of these guidelines. For this purpose, institutions
         should ensure that the relevant loss data is available during the considered downturn
         period as well as during an appropriate period before and after the considered downturn
         period.
     24. Where sufficient and relevant loss data to assess the impact of the considered downturn
         period is not available but it is possible to calibrate downturn LGD for the considered
         downturn period by applying the approach set out in Section 6, institutions should calibrate
         downturn LGD for the considered downturn period in accordance with Section 6 of these
         guidelines.
     25. Where sufficient and relevant loss data to assess the impact of the considered downturn
         period is not available, and it is not possible to quantify downturn LGD for the considered
         downturn period by applying the approach set out in Section 6, institutions should calibrate
         downturn LGD for the considered downturn period in accordance with Section 7 of these
         guidelines.
     26. Regardless of the approach used for calibrating downturn LGD institutions should adhere
         to the following principles
               (a) where the approach used involves the estimation or analysis of different
                   intermediate parameters, the aggregation of these intermediate parameters for
                   the purpose of calibrating downturn LGD should start with the parameter where
                   the highest impact is observed in accordance with paragraph 27 or estimated in
                                                                                                   45

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                    accordance with paragraph 30 and any additional impact observed or estimated on
                    other parameters should be added where necessary.
                (b) The downturn LGD estimates should not be biased by observed or estimated cash
                    flows that are received with a significantly longer time lag than the period referred
                    to in paragraph 156 of [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] and which might rather
                    reflect an upturn or improved economic conditions following the considered
                    downturn period.
5. Downturn LGD estimation based on
observed impact
     27. In order to calibrate downturn LGD based on the observed impact of a considered
         downturn period, institutions should carry out an analysis of the impact of this downturn
         period on the loss data related to the considered calibration segment.
         (a) The analysis shall comprise at a minimum all of the following:
                (i) evidence of elevated levels of realised LGDs, driven by the considered downturn
                    period taking into account all of the following:
                      (1) the realised LGDs should be calculated as averages related to all defaults that
                          occurred in a considered year and that have either reached their maximum
                          time of recovery in accordance with paragraph 156 [EBA GL on PD and LGD
                          estimation] or have been closed before;
                      (2) for all incomplete recovery processes of defaulted exposures that have not
                          reached their maximum time of recovery in accordance with paragraph 156
                          [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation], the marginal recoveries reached in each
                          year after default should be computed. The resulting recovery patterns should
                          be compared to the recovery patterns of the defaults considered in letter (1)
                          for each year in which the defaults occurred.
               (ii) evidence of decreased annual recoveries by sources of recoveries that are relevant
                    for the considered calibration segment. These annual recoveries should be
                    analysed with and without repossessions where applicable and irrespective of the
                    date of default;
              (iii) evidence of decreased numbers of exposures that defaulted and returned back to
                    the non-defaulted status within a predefined fixed horizons for all defaults that
                    happened in a considered year in accordance with Article 178(5) of Regulation (EU)
                    No 575/2013; The predefined fixed horizon should be appropriate for the type of
                    exposure under consideration.
              (iv) evidence of increased time in default per year related to all defaults in a considered
                    year.
                                                                                                       46

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         (b) The analysis required in paragraph 27(a) shall take into account as many points in time
               as possible where sufficient relevant loss data is available. Otherwise, if only scarce
               relevant loss data is available on an annual basis, institutions should merge consecutive
               years of observations as long as deemed of added value for the analysis.
         (c) The analysis required in paragraph 27(a) and (b), shall take into account any lag
               between a downturn period and the time when its potential impact is observed on the
               relevant loss data.
     28. Based on the evidence obtained from the impact analysis referred to in paragraph 27,
         institutions should calibrate downturn LGD by applying an estimation methodology which
         is coherent with the evidence obtained from the impact analysis.
     29. Where the impact analysis conducted in accordance with paragraph 27 shows no impact of
         a downturn period on an institution’s relevant loss data, such that the average observed
         realised losses in this downturn period are not different from those under other economic
         conditions, the institution may use the long-run average LGD as downturn LGD, where all
         of the following applies:
         (a) the institution ensures and documents that the deficiencies identified and MoC applied
               in accordance with Section 4.4 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] incorporate
               all additional elements of uncertainty related to the identified downturn periods;
         (b) for the purpose of letter (a), the institution should in particular verify that, for the
               considered downturn period, none of the deficiencies identified under the Category A,
               MoC in accordance with paragraph 37(a) of [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] are of
               higher severity and that no additional deficiencies or adjustments under the Category
               B MoC in accordance with paragraph 37(b) of [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] are
               applicable.
6. Downturn LGD estimation based on
estimated impact
     30. Where paragraph 24 applies, institutions should calibrate downturn LGD using one of the
         methodologies specified in paragraph 31 (‘haircut approach’) and paragraph 32
         (‘extrapolation approach’) or a combination of those. Prior to quantifying its downturn LGD
         estimates, institutions should choose the most relevant methodology based on:
               (a) the appropriateness of the methodology to estimate the impact of the downturn
                    period under consideration on a realised LGDs, intermediate parameters or risk
                    drivers;
               (b) where relevant, the need to use a combination of the methodologies to ensure
                    that the resulting downturn LGDs for the downturn period under consideration
                    adequately reflect a potential downturn impact on all material components of
                                                                                                      47

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                   economic loss in accordance with Section 6.3.1 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD
                   estimation] and in accordance with the principles set out in paragraph 26;
               In particular the haircut approach should be considered most appropriate for the above
               purposes where the market value or an according index related to a relevant type of
               collateral serves as a direct or transformed input into an institution’s model for LGD
               estimation and has been identified as a relevant economic factor in accordance with
               Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No xx/xxx [RTS on economic downturn].
     31. (‘Haircut approach’) For the purpose of these guidelines, a ‘haircut approach’ refers to an
         approach for the estimation of the impact of the downturn period on realised LGDs,
         intermediate parameters or risk drivers in which one or several economic factors as
         referred to in Regulation (EU) xx/xx [RTS on economic downturn] are direct or transformed
         input(s) in the LGD model and where for the purpose of this estimation these input(s) are
         adjusted to reflect the impact of the downturn period under consideration. In particular,
         where the considered economic factor relates to the downturn period under consideration,
         the haircut should be based on the most severe observation of this economic factor in
         accordance with the specification of the severity of an economic downturn laid down in
         Article 3 of Regulation (EU) xx/xx [RTS on economic downturn].
     32. (‘Extrapolation Approach’) For the purposes of these guidelines, an ‘extrapolation
         approach’ refers to the estimation of the impact of the downturn period under
         consideration on LGDs, intermediate parameters or risk drivers if all of the following
         conditions are met:
               (a) where a statistically significant dependency between the realised LGDs,
                   intermediate parameters or risk drivers, averaged over appropriate periods in time,
                   and the economic factors selected in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation xx/xxx
                   [RTS on economic downturn] which are relevant for the downturn period under
                   consideration, can be established the resulting estimates are based on the
                   extrapolated values of the average realised LGDs, intermediate parameters or risk
                   drivers to the period reflecting the impact of the downturn period;
               (b) where no statistically significant dependency as described in paragraph 32(a) can
                   be established for an intermediate parameter or risk driver, institutions may
                   estimate the impact of the downturn period under consideration on an
                   intermediate parameter or risk driver based on observed data from a different
                   period, where all of following three conditions are met:
                         (i)   at least those components of economic loss that explain the major share
                               of the total economic loss should be estimated by either a haircut
                               approach in accordance with paragraph 31 or an extrapolation approach
                               in accordance with paragraph 32(a);
                        (ii)   the institution has observed data for the intermediate parameter or risk
                               driver for a sufficient period of time which is at least as long as the period
                               referred to in Article 181(1)(j) or Article 181(2), last subparagraph of
                               Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; this period of time should include a period
                                                                                                           48

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                               where the economic factor(s) underlying the considered downturn
                               period show values representing adverse economic conditions.
                       (iii)   the intermediate parameter or risk driver under consideration shows
                               low volatility in the periods referred to in sub point (ii).
     33. Where institutions have observed data covering the downturn period and reflecting the
         impact of the respective downturn conditions under consideration on an intermediate
         parameter or risk driver they should use the observed data in combination with the Haircut
         or Extrapolation Approach to calibrate downturn LGD for the considered downturn period
         in accordance with paragraph 30.
     34. Where institutions apply any of the approaches outlined in paragraphs 31 to 33 for the
         purpose of estimating intermediate parameters or risk drivers, they should ensure that the
         dependency structure between intermediate parameters or risk drivers is reflected
         appropriately in the aggregation of these intermediate parameters or risk drivers in
         accordance with paragraph 30.
     35. To reflect the lack of sufficient loss data, institutions should quantify a strictly positive
         Category A MoC in accordance with paragraph 37(a)(xi) of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD
         estimation] for all approaches in this section. In particular, institutions applying an
         extrapolation approach:
               (a) as referred to in paragraph 32(a), should quantify the Category A MoC by using an
                   appropriate confidence interval to reflect the uncertainty related to the statistical
                   model used to describe the dependency between the realised LGDs, intermediate
                   parameters or risk drivers and the relevant economic factors;
               (b) for an intermediate parameter or risk driver as referred to in paragraph 32(b),
                   should quantify the Category A MoC taking into account the ratio of the value(s) of
                   the economic factor(s) underlying the considered downturn period identified in
                   accordance with Article 3 of Regulation xx/xxx [RTS on economic downturn] and
                   value(s) of the relevant economic factor(s) observed in the periods referred to in
                   paragraph 32(b)(ii);
7. Downturn LGD estimation where
observed or estimated impact is not
available
     36. Where the relevant loss data to assess the impact of the downturn period under
         consideration is not available and it is also not possible to calibrate downturn LGD for the
         considered downturn period in accordance with Section 6 of these guidelines, institutions
                                                                                                     49

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
         should quantify downturn LGD through any other approach subject to the following
         conditions:
               (a) they should ensure that the appropriate MoC required to be applied in accordance
                    with Section 4.4.3 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] includes a Category A
                    MoC that is strictly positive to account for the missing data;
               (b) they should ensure that the resulting downturn LGD estimates including the final
                    MoC as set out in paragraph 45 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation], for the
                    considered downturn period are higher or equal to the minimum between
                           <U+F0B7> the according long-run average LGDs plus an add-on of 15 percentage
                             points and
                           <U+F0B7> 105%;
         Moreover, they should provide justification to the satisfaction of the competent authority
         that they cannot calibrate downturn LGD appropriate for the considered downturn period
         by applying any of the approaches set out in Section 5 and Section 6 of these guidelines.
8. Reference Value
     37. Institutions should calculate a reference value in accordance with the following sequence
         of steps:
             (a) Using all available loss data, institutions should select the two individual years with
                  the highest observed economic loss by:
                       (i) grouping all defaults according to the year in which the defaults occurred;
                      (ii) for each year as identified in (i) calculating for the defaults that occurred in
                           the considered year the ratio of total economic loss as specified in Section
                           6.3.1 of the [EBA GL on PD and LGD estimation] to the total outstanding
                           amount of the according credit obligations at the moment of default;
                     (iii) selecting the two individual years with the highest annual ratio of total
                           economic loss to total outstanding amount resulting from (ii) as the two
                           individual years with the highest observed economic losses.
             (b) Institutions should calculate the reference value(s) at least for each calibration
                  segment as the simple average of the average realised LGDs from the two individual
                  years with the highest observed economic losses, as identified in paragraph 37(a)(iii).
                                                                                                        50

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
4. Accompanying documents
4.1 Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment
The impact assessment (IA) analyses the potential related costs and benefits of the policy provided
in the draft guidelines. This analysis shall provide the reader with an overview of the findings as
regards the problem identification, the options identified to remove the problem and their
potential impacts.
A. Problem identification
While the proposed RTS aim to harmonise the definition of an economic downturn, these guidelines
focus on the estimation of downturn LGD per se. Indeed, both the definition of an economic
downturn and the downturn LGD estimation have been identified in different reports (from the
EBA 11 as well as from the industry) as key drivers of non-risk-based variability of capital
requirements. All issues that have been considered while developing the RTS and these guidelines
relate to the identification and/or limitation of drivers of unjustified RWA variability in the context
of downturn LGD.
The RTS and these GL are expected to provide a more harmonised framework for the identification
of economic downturn conditions and downturn LGD estimations, leading to more comparable
RWA outcomes across institutions.
B. Policy objectives
The objective of these guidelines is to establish convergence between institutions’ methodological
choices in estimating downturn LGD estimates. These methodological choices are considered to be
drivers of unjustified RWA variability; hence the harmonisation of the current practices is expected
to increase the comparability of own funds requirements.
The guidelines introduce three different type of approaches to estimate the downturn LGD, taking
into account the data availability of the institution. The most appropriate approach should be used.
     <U+F0B7>     The first and optimal approach should be relied on when loss data reflecting the impact of
           an economic downturn (identified in accordance with the draft RTS on the specification of
           the nature, severity and duration of an economic downturn) are available. In this case, the
           institution can model the downturn directly.
     <U+F0B7>     The second approach comes into play if insufficient data are available, in which case the
           institution has the choice of quantifying the downturn adjustment using a limited set of
           methodologies.
11
   https://eba.europa.eu/-/eba-publishes-reports-on-comparability-of-risk-weighted-assets-rwas-and-pro-cyclicality
                                                                                                                   51

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
      <U+F0B7>    Finally, if no such data are available and the limited set of methodologies cannot be applied
           either, the institution still has to provide downturn LGD estimates (as this is a CRR
           requirement) but needs to include a margin of conservatism, covering for the lack of data
           and methodological deficiencies. Under this third and final approach, it is required that the
           final downturn LGD estimates include an appropriate margin of conservatism and be higher
           than the corresponding long-run-average LGD estimates plus 15% (capped at a final
           downturn LGD estimate of 105%).
C. Baseline scenario
The baseline scenario can be defined in terms of supervisory rules and practices, institutions’
current practices and regulatory environment.
The baseline scenario in terms of the supervisory expectations is specified on the basis of data
collected from competent authorities for the purpose of the reports on comparability and
procyclicality of capital requirements published by the EBA in December 2013. These data were
updated as regards downturn LGD and CF supervisory rules and practices in December 2016 and
were summarised in the last consultation paper (CP).
  Findings from Report on the comparability of supervisory rules and practices
  Downturn LGD: around half of the CAs (45%, nine CAs) define a rule concerning the methodology
  of downturn LGD. Among those CAs, in four cases the rule is public and binding and, moreover,
  seven CAs confirm that banks should base their downturn LGD estimates on historical scenarios;
  three of them specify further that their methodology also builds on hypothetical stressed
  scenarios, in particular for those cases where the downturn period is not reflected in the
  historical series of the institutions. Moreover, three CAs mentioned the use of either a margin of
  conservatism to address data issues or a conservative add-on for those cases where the
  estimation made at institution level is not considered conservative enough.
  Downturn CF: only 30% (six) of the CAs define a rule concerning the methodology of downturn
  CF. Among those CAs, only in one is the rule public and binding and, moreover, only two CAs
  confirm that banks should base their downturn CF estimates basing on historical scenarios; one
  of them specifies further that its methodology also builds on hypothetical stressed scenarios for
  those cases in which the downturn period is not reflected in the historical series of the
  institutions.
Furthermore, the work on the harmonisation of the estimation of the risk parameters was
completed in 2017 through guidelines12 which were based on a survey on the main practices of
modelling. In this context, the report on the IRB practices13 published in 2017 also highlights the
wide variety of practices for the estimation of downturn LGD.
12
   https://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/model-validation/guidelines-on-pd-lgd-estimation-and-treatment-
of-defaulted-assets
13
     https://www.eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/1720738/EBA+Report+on+IRB+modelling+practices.pdf/0212ecde-
426d-4e18-84f8-04b036dcce00
                                                                                                               52

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
 Findings from the IRB survey on the variety of methodologies14
 Figure 53: What is the main methodology used to determine LGD estimates that are appropriate for an economic
 downturn?
                                                                              Apply the LGD estimation
                                                                              methodology based on data
                                                                              from the downturn period
                                                                              (without using model
                                                                              components)
                                                                              Apply the LGD estimation
                                             9%                               methodology using the
                     20%                                                      downturn period value for all
                             14%          9%                                  model components
                                                           20%                Apply the LGD estimation
                                                      22%                     methodology using the
                                                                              downturn period value just for
                  23%                                                         the more relevant model
                                                                              components
            21%                                                               Downturn considered within
                                                                              the conservatism applied in the
                                                16%
                                                                              model development process
                               17%
                                                     18%
                                11%
                                                                              Fixed downturn adjustment
                                                                              Other
 Note: the inner circle shows the share of each option where all LGD models are weighted equally, whereas the outer
 circle shows the share of each option where LGD models are weighted by their corresponding exposure value.
    244. When it comes to the methodologies that institutions use to determine downturn LGD
        estimates, a wide variety of practices can be observed (see Figure 53). However, in 38% of
        LGD models, the downturn period value is used for all model components (22%), or for the
        most relevant components (16%). In 23% of LGD models, a fixed downturn adjustment is
        applied, and in 9% of models the LGD estimation is based on data from the downturn period
        without using model components.
    245. Around 17% of respondents indicate that they use conservatism in the model
        development process to reflect downturn LGD estimates.
In terms of the regulatory environment, the baseline scenario for downturn LGD estimates is set
out by the currently applicable Guidelines on the implementation, validation and assessment of
                                                                                                                  53

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
Advanced Measurement (AMA) and Internal Ratings Based (IRB) Approaches (GL 10) published by
the Committee of European Banking Supervisors in April 2006. Those previous guidelines define
appropriate downturn conditions as those in which relevant drivers of default rates are consistent
with conditions in which credit losses for the supervisory exposure class are expected to be
substantially higher than average. This framework put an emphasis on the correlation between
default rates and recovery rates; in fact, if no material dependencies between default rates and
recovery rates are identified, the downturn LGD estimates may be based on the long-run average
LGD.
D. Options considered
This section presents the assessment of the technical options considered in the guidelines. Under
each option, the potential advantages and disadvantages of the options are discussed together with
potential costs and benefits. Since most of the alternatives are presented in explanatory text for
the consultation, this section refers to these explanations.
Specification of the level of application of the downturn
Paragraph 14 requires institutions to provide a downturn LGD estimate at least at the same level
as the one considered for long-run average LGD in LGD calibration. The report on IRB modelling
highlights a significant variability of practices
  Findings from the IRB survey on the variety of methodologies
  Figure 52: At which level is the downturn adjustment specified?
14
   https://eba.europa.eu/documents/10180/1720738/EBA+Report+on+IRB+modelling+practices.pdf
                                                                                                54

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                Level of scope of application of
                                 2% 3%                                          the LGD model
                            4%
                                                                                Level of grade or pool
                                4% 2%2%
                12%        5%                                                   Level of type of collateral
                       6%
            3%                                                                  Level of model component
                   9%                                   46%    45%
            6%                                                                  Other
                                                                                Level of an institution (the same
                                                                                for all LGD models)
                           27%
                                                                                Not applicable
                          25%
                                                                                Differentiated according to
                                                                                product type
 Note: the inner circle shows the share of each option where all LGD models are weighted equally, whereas the outer
 circle shows the share of each option where LGD models are weighted by their corresponding exposure value.
    242. In nearly half of the LGD models, the downturn adjustment is specified at the level of the
        LGD model, whereas in smaller shares of models, the downturn adjustment is specified at a
        lower level: at the level of the grade or pool (in 27% of models), differentiated according to
        the type of collateral (9%) or differentiated by product type (2%) (see Figure 52). In around
        4% of models, the downturn adjustment is specified uniformly in the institution. Some
        respondents (around 6%) mentioned that the downturn adjustment is applied at model
        component level, in which case it is not entirely clear whether this leads to a different
        adjustment by grade or pool, collateral, or product type, or whether this leads to a uniform
        adjustment for all exposures under the scope of application of the LGD model.
The following options were considered:
                                                                                                                  55

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
  Options                              Advantages                       Disadvantages
  1. Flexibility-based approach:                                        No reduction       in   undue
  no requirements                                                       variability
  2. Consistency approach:             In line with the CRR, where the This approach may increase
  level at which the long-run          requirement        to    reflect the burden of the estimation
  average is considered for LGD        downturn conditions in the for some banks
  calibration                          LGD       is   part of risk
                                       quantification (and not risk
                                       differentiation)
                                       Ensures consistency with the
                                       long-run average LGD (in
                                       particular for the comparison)
  3. Prescriptive approach: level Easy to implement                     Differences between the
  of the type of exposure                                               potential impacts of an
                                                                        economic downturn on, for
                                                                        example,      secured     and
                                                                        unsecured parts or different
                                                                        grades and pools might not be
                                                                        appropriately reflected
The second option was retained, since it strikes a good balance between harmonisation and the
necessary flexibility that has to be kept in modelling choices.
Possibility of dismissing a downturn period in the assessment of downturn LGD (presented in
explanatory texts)
Paragraph 15 requires institutions to provide a downturn LGD estimate for all downturn periods
identified. The following options were considered:
                                                                                                    56

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
 Options                               Advantages                      Disadvantages
 1. Flexibility based approach:        Less burdensome for             Opens up the possibility of
 possibility of dismissing a           institutions                    regulatory arbitrage: it is not
 downturn period                                                       easy to set objective criteria
                                                                       to dismiss a downturn period
                                                                       Possible lack of prudence, all
                                                                       the more so in cases where
                                                                       no severe downturn is
                                                                       reflected in the internal loss
                                                                       data
 2. Prescriptive approach: no          Ensures maximum                 Downturn LGD also has to be
 possibility of dismissing a           harmonisation                   estimated where no data are
 downturn period                                                       available for a particular
                                       Most prudent approach           downturn period, which
                                                                       might lead to less reliable
                                                                       estimations
Finally the first option was chosen, subject to the requirement that a downturn period can be
dismissed only if it is based on economic factors that are not relevant to the calibration segment
under consideration.
Adjustment of the calibration to take into account potential migrations (not presented in
explanatory texts)
Article 181(1)(b) of the CRR states that, ‘to the extent a rating system is expected to deliver realised
LGDs at a constant level by grade or pool over time, institutions shall make adjustments to their
estimates of risk parameters by grade or pool to limit the capital impact of an economic downturn’.
The following interpretations were considered:
         -     The capital impact of an economic downturn should be limited at the portfolio level
               through a calibration methodology that reflects the facility-grade distribution of
               exposures at the point in time at which the downturn impact was observed. The
               rationale for this is that capital requirements stemming from the downturn LGD
               estimation should not increase in the event of an economic downturn but rather be
               appropriate for an economic downturn as required in Article 181 (1)(b) regardless of
               the current state of the economy.
         -     The capital impact of an economic downturn should be limited by requiring institutions
               to make adjustment to their estimates by grade and pool by using a calibration
                                                                                                       57

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
               methodology that takes into account the fluctuation arising from the economic cycle
               of the loss rates.
  Options                              Advantages                   Disadvantages
  1. Additional requirements           Ensures that capital         Taking into account the
  (paragraph 17)                       requirements (stemming from  potential migrations in the
                                       downturn LGD estimation) do  calibration may be
                                       not increase in the event of complicated and increase
                                       an economic downturn         RWA variability
                                                                    Not consistent with the
                                                                    introduction of grades and
                                                                    pools in the Basel framework
  2. No additional                     Ensures that the realised    Capital requirements
  requirements                         LGDs are stable at the grade (stemming from downturn
                                       level                        LGD estimation) increase if
                                                                    the economy enters an
                                                                    economic downturn
The first option was selected for the consultation, in order to assess the materiality of the issue
from the industry.
Alternative approach under type 1 methodology: vintage of defaults and vintage of recoveries
Paragraph 27 requires institutions to conduct an impact assessment related to the calibration
segment under consideration. For this, the construction of several yearly time series is required.
Several grouping options have been considered: use of the date of default, the date of the main
recovery or the date of return to non-defaulted status or close work out process.
  Findings from the IRB survey on the variety of methodologies
                                                                                                 58

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
 Figure 51: How are data selected used in downturn estimation?
                                                According to all observed defaults during the whole observation
                                                period to which an adjustment is made to take into account
                                                downturn conditions
             15%                                According to defaulted exposures which recovery process closes
                  7%                            during the downturn period
       2%      3%
                                    38%
          17%                   39%
                                                According to the recoveries occurred in the downturn period
    19%                                         (e.g. assigning exposures to a downturn period if the majority of
                                                the realised recoveries are observed during the downturn
           19%                                  period)
                       15%                      All defaults which occurred during the downturn period are
                                                included.
              16%          11%
                                                Not applicable
 Note: the inner circle shows the share of each option where all LGD models are weighted equally, whereas the outer
 circle shows the share of each option where LGD models are weighted by their corresponding exposure value.
    237. The IRB survey then enquired how institutions select data once the downturn period is
        established to compute the long-run average LGD. Based on the responses, however, it
        appears that this question was not properly understood, since nearly 50% of original
        responses were for the category ‘other’ and provided a wide range of explanations not
        answering the question. As a result, many of the responses have been discarded because
        the explanations given responded to a different question. This was the case when it was
        mentioned, for instance, that the data used in downturn estimation are selected based on
        expert judgement, or based on historical time series, etc. The results shown in Figure 51 are
        therefore based on a much smaller sample of LGD models than those represented in Table
        57 (148 instead of 202).
    238. In nearly 40% of LGD models, the data used in downturn estimation are selected based
        on all observed defaults during the whole observation period to which an adjustment is
        made, to take into account downturn conditions, whereas in 17% of models all defaults that
        occurred during the downturn period are included.
    239. In 19% of models, those exposures for which the recoveries occurred in the downturn
        period are selected (e.g. assigning exposures to a downturn period if the majority of the
        realised recoveries are observed during the downturn period). In two institutions, the data
        are selected according to defaulted exposures for which the recovery process starts during
        the downturn period. However, in around 15% of models defaulted exposures are selected
        for which the recovery process closes during the downturn period.
                                                                                                                  59

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
    240. Among the responses in the category ‘other’, one institution mentioned that it selects
        the data used in downturn estimation according to exposures that default during the
        downturn period. One institution mentioned a three-step approach: (1) downturn periods
        are identified if the house price index has decreased; (2) the average house price decline
        during the downturn period is calculated; and (3) the recovery rate under downturn periods
        is computed by subtracting the average house price decline from the usual recovery rate.
        Other institutions mentioned a combination of selecting all exposures that defaulted during
        the downturn period for the unsecured part of the exposure, and selecting all exposures for
        which the recovery process ends during the downturn period for the secured part of the
        exposure.
    241. In some cases, the respondent mentioned that the question is not applicable. This was
        the case for a sovereign portfolio and an aviation portfolio, and in one case it was mentioned
        that no downturn period could be identified.
The following approaches have been considered:
 Options                               Advantages                       Disadvantages
 1. Vintage of default                 Consistent with PD series        Unclear consequences on
                                                                        models using loss components
 2. Year of recoveries                 May be easier to find a Year of recoveries is not
                                       relationship       with    the currently defined in the
                                       economic cycle                   regulatory framework
                                                                        Potential inconsistency with
                                                                        the PD series
 3. Different analysis covering Allows consistent estimation It may be challenging to build
 both views                            with respect to impact a model which reflects all
                                       observed considering various aspects
                                       dimensions
                                       Catch-up effects (i.e. sales
                                       after a downturn) can be
                                       identified
The proposed text is a compromise between the different options:
     <U+F0B7>     The impact assessment considers different groupings, depending on the aspect component
           considered.
                                                                                                     60

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
     <U+F0B7>   Flexibility is left with regard to the estimation of the downturn LGD as long as it is coherent
         with the results obtained in the impact assessment. However, the final GL contain some
         principles in paragraph 26 which will support an appropriate aggregation of the results of
         the impact assessment.
This approach was retained because of the lack of consensus in the responses to the previous
consultation paper as well as the diversity of practices highlighted in the IRB survey. It is, however,
acknowledged that this option leaves some RWA variability in the estimates.
Conditions for using the long-run average as a downturn LGD parameter
Article 181(1)(b) of the CRR states that ‘institutions shall use LGD estimates that are appropriate
for an economic downturn if those are more conservative than the long-run average.’
The following options were considered:
 Options                               Advantages                       Disadvantages
 1. Flexibility-based approach:                                         No harmonisation of practices
 no requirements
 2. Prescriptive approach: give        Brings harmonisation to          The specifications may not be
 conditions for using the long-        practices                        sufficiently clear
 run average
The final proposal builds on the second option: the conditions for using the long-run average are
prescribed (e.g. certain data requirements where the assumption of no impact on long-run average
LGD is justified) and cases where the long-run average cannot be used are explicitly mentioned; in
particular, if the downturn LGD is estimated using an add-on to the long-run average, this add-on
can be estimated as being null but an appropriate MoC should be added to cover for the uncertainty
of this estimation.
The alternatives and the costs and benefits analysis are presented in the explanatory boxes.
E. Cost-benefit analysis
The guidance given in these guidelines and the corresponding draft RTS on economic downturn
affect LGD and CFs modelling. Therefore, it is expected that these regulatory products will lead to
additional steps in the model, involving the identification and inclusion of economic downturn
conditions, and in general to changes in the model.
However, detailed assessment of the costs for institutions of these model changes and their impact
on capital requirements is not possible, as the current flexibility of the IRB approach does not allow
the definition of a common baseline scenario regarding current modelling choices from an
                                                                                                      61

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
institution perspective. It is expected that the impact of these guidelines and RTS on individual
institutions will vary depending on the currently implemented solutions. In this sense, the
qualitative assessment performed in the last CP remains valid.
However, compared with the first CP, the complexity has been reduced, in particular with respect
to the concept of model components, as has the permitted flexibility with respect to which
economic factors have to be considered.
F. Preferred option
This part presents a direct comparison between the final downturn package and the first
consultation on the RTS (and more particularly) based on the example that was presented in the
Explanatory Box related to Article 6 of the draft RTS15 (assessment of the joint impact):
                                                                    New proposal
                           New
            CP                             Type 1 estimation            Type 2 estimation Type 3 estimation
                         ordering
                                                (section 5)                (section 6)       (section 7)
  Step 1:                            There is no requirement to identify model components
  identifying
  model                              Prescriptive impact analysis      No prescription, No prescription
  components                         covers          main         loss but        material
                                     components                        components        of
                             4       (paragraph 22)                    economic        loss
                                                                       should            be
                                                                       identified
                                                                       (paragraph 24(b))
  Step 2:                            In the RTS, now independent of the model components, and more
  identifying                        prescriptive, with a list in Article 2 of economic factors that have
                             1
  relevant                           to be considered relevant, instead of general principles (Article 3
  economic factors                   of the draft RTS)
  Step 3:                            In the CP, the notion of a downturn period was linked to an
  identifying                        individual economic factor. In the revised concept, a downturn
  downturn period            2       period relates to various economic factors
  for each
  economic factor
  Step 4:                            In the revised draft RTS, the concept of the downturn period
  identification of                  is similar to the previous concept of the downturn scenario,
  the downturn               3       i.e. it is characterised by a set of economic factors that reach
  scenarios                          severe levels simultaneously or shortly after each other and
                                     are the effect of one overall economic condition
15
   https://eba.europa.eu/-/eba-consults-on-specification-of-an-economic-downturn
                                                                                                         62

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
 Step 5:                            Downturn LGD estimation in accordance with one of the three
 computation of                     types depends on data availability and the ability to use the
 downturn LGD                       methods prescribed in section 6
                             5
 for each
 downturn
 scenario
 Step 6:                            In the guidelines, the highest downturn LGD per calibration
 identification of                  segment (and not type of exposure, as specified in Article 6 of the
 the final                   6      CP) is selected
 downturn
 scenario
                                                                                                      63

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
4.2 Summary of responses to the consultation and the EBA’s analysis
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
 General comments
                               In summary, the respondents welcomed the general
                               approach and in particular the EBA’s effort to simplify LGD
 General support               estimation by making the identification of an economic
                               downturn independent from the LGD estimation
                               methodology.
                               As they did for the RTS on economic downturn,
                               respondents pointed out that the final Basel III framework  A potential need for a review of the date of
                               will influence the scope of application of these GL as well application will be assessed at a later point in time
                               as of the GL on PD and LGD estimation published in          when more information is available regarding the
 Implementation
                               November 2017. Therefore, alignment of the dates of         implementation of the Basel III finalisation in the EU
                               application of these GL and of the GL on PD and LGD to the  and with respect to all products covered by the EBA’s
                               envisaged date of application of the revised Basel III      regulatory review of the IRB approach.
                               standard was requested.
                               Several respondents asked for confirmation that the
                                                                                           Indeed, these GL do not apply to the estimation of
                               concepts set out in these GL do not apply to the estimation
 Non-applicability to CF                                                                   conversion factors appropriate for economic
                               of conversion factors appropriate for economic downturn
                                                                                           downturn conditions.
                               conditions.
 Interaction with FIRB                                                                     These GL set out rules for the estimation of downturn
                               Some respondents asked for the interlinkage of these GL
 LGDs, IFRS9 and stress                                                                    LGD. The EBA considers FIRB-LGDs, IFRS9 and stress-
                               and the regulations for FIRB LGDs, IFRS9 or stress testing.
 test                                                                                      testing regulations to be independent and based on
                                                                                                                                                                64

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                      Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                                   EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                      the proposals
                                                                                               different assumptions from the rules set out in these
                                                                                               GL.
                                                                                               It should be noted that, in accordance with the RTS,
                                                                                               multiple downturn periods can be identified. The
                               Several respondents (on the RTS as well as on the GL)
                                                                                               finally relevant downturn periods are chosen for each
 Multiple downturn             claimed that it remains difficult to understand the choice                                                             Paragraph 15     has
                                                                                               calibration segment. The process for choosing the
 periods                       of the most severe downturn period where several                                                                       been clarified.
                                                                                               finally relevant downturn period for a calibration
                               downturn periods are identified.
                                                                                               segment under consideration is clarified in
                                                                                               paragraph 15 of these GL.
                               Some respondents expressed concerns that data
                               availability issues could increase the unjustified variability, The GL specifically allow for type 2 approaches to
 Relevant loss data
                               in relation to the requirement to look at a time series of 20   overcome this issue.
                               years for economic factors.
                                                                                               Paragraph 26 clarifies that such compensation effects
                                                                                               cannot be taken into account. Moreover, it clarifies
                                                                                               that it is not expected that downturn impacts
                                                                                               observed on different components (which may reflect
                               Respondents asked how to reach a conclusion on the              different stages of the NPL life cycle) are simply
                               effect that a downturn period has on LGD where one (or          added. Example 4 in the Background and rationale
                                                                                               illustrates how different results from the impact      The principles in
                               more) of the components assessed in the impact
                                                                                               analysis in paragraph 27 could be aggregated. As,      paragraph 26 have
 Type 1 approaches             assessment (i.e. elevate levels of realised LGDs, etc.) has
                                                                                               however, an aggregation of impact on different         been added to the
                               positive outcomes during the downturn period, and they
                                                                                               components may also be necessary under type 2 or       GL text.
                               offset any negative outcomes from one (or more) of the
                               other components.                                               even type 3 approaches, the principles set out in that
                                                                                               paragraph 26 are not limited to type 1 approaches.
                                                                                               Moreover, paragraph 29 clarifies that the long-run
                                                                                               average LGD can be considered appropriate for
                                                                                               economic downturn only if no impact has been
                                                                                               observed in all dimensions analysed in the impact
                                                                                                                                                                      65

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
                                                                                           assessment and if all other requirements set out in
                                                                                           paragraph 29 are met.
                                                                                           The EBA considers that the standardised impact
                                                                                           assessment in paragraph 27 provides for a level
                                                                                           playing field with respect to a minimum scope of the
                                                                                           analysis of an impact of an identified downturn period
                               Respondents pointed out that cyclical dependency may be     where observed loss data are available. It should,
 Type 1 approaches
                               better assessed by year of major cash flow.                 however, be noted that an analysis of the year of
                                                                                           major cash flow may be an appropriate element of
                                                                                           the downturn LGD estimation methodology to ensure
                                                                                           it is coherent with the evidence obtained from the
                                                                                           impact analysis as required in paragraph 28.
                                                                                           Paragraph 27(a)(i) has been split into two analyses:
                                                                                           one covers the subset containing all closed cases,
                                                                                           where for this purpose facilities which have reached
                               Several respondents asked for clarification on the          their maximum time to recovery as defined in
                                                                                                                                                  Paragraph 27(a)(i)
                               treatment of incomplete cases in the impact assessment.     paragraph 156 of the GL on PD and LGD estimation
 Type 1 approaches                                                                                                                                has been split into
                               It was considered that only closed cases should be taken    should be considered closed; and the other set should
                                                                                                                                                  (1) and (2).
                               into account for the analysis on realised LGD.              contain all incomplete recovery processes that have
                                                                                           not reached their maximum time to recovery. The
                                                                                           latter may reveal, in particular, impact on downturn
                                                                                           LGD for defaulted exposure.
                                                                                           The EBA agrees that optimally such guidance would
                                                                                           be provided. However, such time lags should follow
                               Some respondents requested guidance on the time period
 Type 1 approaches                                                                         the time lags which are observed in practice, into
                               for the time lag to be considered in the impact assessment.
                                                                                           which the EBA considered that the industry has more
                                                                                           insight.
                                                                                                                                                                  66

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                the proposals
                                                                                        The purpose of this analysis is to reveal the impact of
                                                                                        the downturn period under consideration on the loss
                                                                                        data. As a minimum, institutions should consider
                                                                                        annual recoveries by sources of recoveries that are
                               Some respondents asked for clarification of how the
                                                                                        relevant to the calibration segment under
 Type 1 approaches             annual recoveries in the impact assessment should be
                                                                                        consideration and irrespective of the date of default
                               calculated.
                                                                                        (and with and without repossessions where relevant).
                                                                                        Analysing the impact on annual recoveries as ratios of
                                                                                        the outstanding amounts may, however, be an
                                                                                        appropriate additional element to consider.
                                                                                        Indeed, and as pointed out in the Background and
                                                                                        rationale, a haircut approach can also be used within
                               Several respondents asked for confirmation that the
                                                                                        a type 1 approach. However, in this case the haircuts
 Type 1 approaches             haircut approach may be appropriate even if sufficient
                                                                                        would need to reflect the results obtained from this
                               downturn data have been observed, rather than 6.
                                                                                        impact assessment in order to comply with
                                                                                        paragraph 28.
 Responses to questions in Consultation Paper EBA/CP/2018/08
 Question 1: Do you think that additional guidance around the estimation of LGD in default, which reflects downturn conditions, is needed? If yes,
 could you provide examples of sound methodologies for transposing downturn LGD estimates from performing to non-performing exposures?
 Question 1                    A majority of respondents welcomed the proposal laid     The feedback has been taken into account and
                               down in the explanatory box of the consultation paper.   subsection 4.2 on downturn LGD estimation for
                               However, several respondents proposed simplified         defaulted exposures sets out the requirements for
                                                                                                                                                Section 4.2 has been
                               approaches, e.g. whereby the downturn component          downturn LGD estimation for each reference date as
                                                                                                                                                added to the GL.
                               estimated for performing exposure would be applied to    well as the requirements for using a simpler approach
                               defaulted exposure as well or an add-on could be derived which builds on the calibration of downturn LGD for
                               from the calibration of the model for performing         non-defaulted exposure.
                                                                                                                                                                 67

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                              Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                              the proposals
                               exposures, which would be transferred to the default
                               portfolio.
 Question 2: Do you share the concern that the proposed policy in paragraph 15 could create an undue burden if applied to every downturn period
 identified? If yes, in order to better balance the accuracy of the estimations and its operational complexity what evidence should be provided by
 institutions in order to justify the exemption of identified downturn periods from the proposed policy in paragraph 15?
 Question 2                    A majority of respondents shared the concern about
                               excessive burden if applied to every downturn period
                               identified.
 Question 2                                                                             The draft GL in the consultation paper already
                                                                                        provided a waiver for the analysis of downturn
                                                                                        periods, where the bank can provide downturn LGD
                                                                                        estimates based only on type 3 approaches for the
                                                                                        downturn period under consideration (but on type 1
                                                                                        or type 2 approaches for a different downturn
                                                                                        period). The final GL still contain this waiver in
                                                                                        paragraph 15(a)(iv).
                               A couple of respondents proposed the exemption of
                                                                                        As pointed out in the Background and rationale,
                               downturn periods for which downturn LGD can be
                                                                                        downturn LGD estimation subject to the minimum
                               estimated only in accordance with section 7 (i.e. type 3
                                                                                        add-on is disregarded where downturn LGD
                               methodology).
                                                                                        estimation is possible based on observed or
                                                                                        estimated impact for any other downturn period
                                                                                        subject to an additional appropriate MoC. However,
                                                                                        under no circumstance should this principle be
                                                                                        abused to circumvent the obligatory use of type 2
                                                                                        approaches where their application is possible.
                                                                                        Indeed, it is expected that type 3 approaches will be
                                                                                        considered only in exceptional cases. Therefore, the
                                                                                        waiver for downturn periods which require a type 3
                                                                                                                                                            68

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                                 EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                                                                                             approach as set out in paragraph 15(a)(iv) will be
                                                                                             revised by the EBA, should there be indications of
                                                                                             excessive or misuse of this waiver.
                                                                                             The EBA considers that the uncertainty of the impact
                                                                                             of a downturn period is higher where such a
                               Another respondent pointed out its doubts about the
                                                                                             downturn has not been observed. An additional MoC
                               compliance of the 20-years approach with Articles 145 and
                                                                                             for a lack of such observed impact on loss data is
 Question 2                    176 of the CRR, and considered that, at least, the approach
                                                                                             therefore covered by Article 179 of the CRR, requiring
                               of penalising institutions that cannot collect 20 years’ data
                                                                                             a margin of conservatism to be added to an
                               was unfair.
                                                                                             institution’s estimates where methods and data are
                                                                                             considered less satisfactory.
                                                                                             Paragraph 15(b) has been added, allowing
                                                                                             institutions not to calibrate downturn LGD for a
                                                                                             calibration segment under consideration for
                               Several respondents proposed exempting downturn
                                                                                             downturn periods identified in accordance with the
                               periods for which the relationship between LGD and                                                                   Paragraph 15(b) has
 Question 2                                                                                  RTS on economic downturn, where institutions can
                               economic factors is not supported by statistical model or                                                            been introduced
                                                                                             provide evidence that the economic factors in
                               economic reasoning.
                                                                                             question are not relevant to the calibration segment
                                                                                             under consideration. An example is provided in the
                                                                                             Background and rationale, paragraph 22.
                                                                                             The EBA considered that issues of representativeness
                                                                                             should be dealt with by complying with section 4.2.4
                                                                                             of the GL on PD and LGD estimation, on
                               Other respondents proposed exempting downturn periods         ‘Representativeness of data for calibration of risk
 Question 2                                                                                  parameters’. Moreover, paragraph 15, on multiple
                               which are not representative of the current portfolio.
                                                                                             downturns, implicitly covers any issues of
                                                                                             representativeness, as the resulting downturn LGD
                                                                                             estimates for each identified downturn period are
                                                                                             applied to the current portfolio, and the one
                                                                                                                                                                    69

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                 Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                             EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                 the proposals
                                                                                         downturn period that leads to the highest average
                                                                                         downturn LGD is chosen for a calibration segment.
                                                                                         Thus the most appropriate period is chosen for the
                                                                                         current composition of the portfolio.
                               Several respondents proposed exempting downturn
                               periods that are identified by the existence of potential The EBA considers that in such a situation adequate
                               structural breaks. As an example, one respondent pointed  time series corrected for redefinitions should be
 Question 2                    out that the 2003 peak in the unemployment rate in        assessed. However, if this is not possible then no
                               Germany relates to the social reforms and redefinition of impact should be visible in the impact assessment
                               unemployment rate rather than to a change in economic     anyway.
                               conditions.
                                                                                         The EBA discussed this view but finally concluded that
                                                                                         excluding such situations would, apart from the
                                                                                         problem of defining a major macroeconomic crisis,
                               Some respondents considered the analysis of multiple      lead to an uneven playing field. Analysis of the recent
                               downturn periods not relevant where a major               crisis showed that, for example, in some jurisdictions
 Question 2
                               macroeconomic crisis is already considered in the         the housing market was hit, whereas in others no
                               observed or estimated impact.                             impact on house prices was observed. Just relying on
                                                                                         the last major macroeconomic crisis would thus lead
                                                                                         to an non-level playing field for mortgage portfolios
                                                                                         in the EU.
                                                                                         As the different downturn periods by construction
                                                                                         refer to different economic factors and thus
                               Several respondents suggested considering an average of
                                                                                         represent downturn conditions of different natures,
 Question 2                    the different downturn periods instead of the worst, in
                                                                                         the EBA considered that an average downturn LGD
                               cases of several downturn periods.
                                                                                         arising from these different periods would not be
                                                                                         meaningful.
                                                                                                                                                               70

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                 Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                             EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                 the proposals
 Question 3: Do you agree with the proposed level of LGD downturn estimation set out in paragraph 14? In particular, do you support the concept
 that the LGD downturn estimates of different calibration segments could be based on different downturn periods? Is the policy on the level of LGD
 downturn estimation as well as the relation between the level of LGD downturn estimation and the relevant downturn periods sufficiently clear?
                               A majority of respondents requested more clarity on the   Paragraph 14 of these GL clarifies the notion of
                                                                                                                                                 Paragraph 14   has
                               concept of calibration segment. The respondents also      calibration segments and provides some guidance on
 Question 3                                                                                                                                      been added to the
                               requested an example of the interaction between the CRR   the use of calibration segments in downturn LGD
                                                                                                                                                 GL.
                               exposure classes and the calibration segments.            estimation.
                               Many respondents welcomed the policy that the LGD
                               downturn estimation should be performed at the level at
 Question 3                    which the long-run average LGD is calculated for the
                               purpose of calibration (e.g. grade/pool, calibration
                               segment).
                               One respondent also pointed out that the policy in the
                                                                                         The EBA is aware of that issue, which is mitigated by   Paragraph 14   has
                               consultation paper might incentivise institutions to have
 Question 3                                                                              the guidance that has been introduced in                been added to the
                               fewer calibration segments/pools/grades in order to
                                                                                         paragraph 14 of the GL.                                 GL.
                               reduce operational burdens.
                                                                                         The EBA considers that an impact assessment at the
                               Several respondents asked that the standardised impact    level of the type of exposure would lead to a non-level
                               analyses should be performed at the level of the type of  playing field, as, for example, internationally active
 Question 3
                               exposure, while the modelling could be done at a more     institutions could then benefit from compensation
                               granular level.                                           effects where local institutions (active in only one
                                                                                         jurisdiction) could not.
 Question 4: Do you consider the description of the approaches to be sufficiently clear?
                                                                                                                                                               71

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
                               A majority of respondents confirmed that they have no
 Question 4                    problem in understanding the haircut and extrapolation
                               approaches.
                                                                                            The GL start from the assumption that there is already
                                                                                            an LGD model to assign facilities to grades or pools. If
                                                                                            this model contains economic factors, then these
                                                                                            should also be identified as additional relevant
                                                                                            economic factors under Article 2 of the RTS. For the
                               Regarding the haircut approach, one respondent claimed       downturn periods constituted by economic factors
                               that it is not clear if this economic indicator needs to be  that are used as inputs to the LGD models, the GL
                               drawn from the mandatory list of indicators used to          prescribe that the haircuts should be based on the
                               identify downturn. If it is not, and the downturn period can most severe observations of these economic factors
 Question 4                    be identified using a different set of macroeconomic         in accordance with the specification of the severity of
                               indicators from those that drive internal loss experience,   an economic downturn laid down in Article 3 of
                               there is no guarantee that the values of the economic        Regulation (EU) xx/xx [RTS on economic downturn].
                               indicators used to model loss will be conservative during
                               the previously identified downturn period.                   However, there could be other downturn periods
                                                                                            constituted by economic factors that are not inputs of
                                                                                            the LGD model. In that case, the GL still allow the use
                                                                                            of the haircut approach to estimate the impact of the
                                                                                            downturn period under consideration, but no rules as
                                                                                            regards the setting of the haircut are set out.
                                                                                            The most severe value of an economic factor is clearly
                               One respondent asked how to handle downturn periods          described in the specification of the severity of an
                               with a duration longer than 12 months. He claimed there      economic downturn laid down in Article 3 of
 Question 4                    is no clear definition of which corresponding values should  Regulation (EU) xx/xx [RTS on economic downturn].
                               then be used for the economic factors in the haircut or      This most severe value does not depend on the
                               extrapolation approach.                                      duration of the corresponding downturn period. In
                                                                                            addition, it should be noted that, for the
                                                                                            extrapolation approach, the resulting estimates
                                                                                                                                                                   72

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
                                                                                           should be based on the extrapolated values of the
                                                                                           average realised LGDs, intermediate parameters or
                                                                                           risk drivers to the period reflecting the impact of the
                                                                                           downturn period.
                               The general assumption of the approach is that a
                               dependency between observed realised LGDs and
                               macroeconomic variables exists. This is probably true
                               given a long observation period with different              Paragraph 32 has been amended to allow backwards
                               macroeconomic circumstances, but may not apply to any       extrapolation based on observed data as well if no
                               observation period. Nevertheless, in particular given a     statistical dependency to the economic factors
                               retail portfolio with a large number of observations, a     underlying the downturn period under consideration        Paragraph 32   has
 Question 4
                               statistical model may derive a dependency between the       can be established. However, this approach is subject     been amended.
                               observed realised LGDs and a macroeconomic factor           to a number of requirements ensuring a clear
                               although the underlying observation period covers a stable  distinction from cases when type 3 methodologies
                               economic environment. In fact, the derived dependency is    need to be considered.
                               just a pseudo-correlation, and the LGDs obtained by
                               backward extrapolation are unsuited for calculating the
                               downturn add-on.
 Question 5: Do you agree to the limitation of approaches for quantification of downturn LGD estimates? If not, which other approaches should be
 considered? Would you prefer the alternative policy considered – if yes how should a minimum MoC be established in this case?
                               Several respondents agreed to the limitation, but asked for
                                                                                           The EBA considers that both the haircut and
                               some amendments and flexibility in the haircut or
                                                                                           extrapolation approaches as described in the GL allow
 Question 5                    extrapolation approach. Several other respondents
                                                                                           a sufficient level of flexibility. Additional flexibility
                               disagreed with this limitation but unfortunately did not
                                                                                           would weaken the normative character of the text.
                               present any other methodology.
 Question 5                    Several respondents interpreted the requirement set out     Several changes have been made in order to ensure         Paragraph 26   has
                               in paragraph 29 of the GL text in the consultation paper as that no double counting of the downturn impact is         been added    and
                                                                                                                                                                   73

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                             Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                         EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                             the proposals
                               forcing the use of the extrapolation approach in many required in the final estimation and that no use of the paragraphs 30 and
                               cases.                                                extrapolation approach is forced where not              32    have    been
                                                                                     necessary:                                              changed.
                                                                                                   (1) Paragraph 30(b) of the final text
                                                                                                        clarifies that a combination of the
                                                                                                        methodologies needs to be
                                                                                                        considered only where necessary to
                                                                                                        adequately reflect a potential
                                                                                                        downturn impact on all material
                                                                                                        components of economic loss.
                                                                                                   (2) Even if then the impact needs to be
                                                                                                        reflected in several components,
                                                                                                        using potentially both the haircut
                                                                                                        and extrapolation approaches, the
                                                                                                        principles set out in paragraph 26
                                                                                                        clarify how the impact estimated on
                                                                                                        the different components should
                                                                                                        be aggregated.
                                                                                                   (3) Paragraph 32 has been amended to
                                                                                                        allow backwards extrapolation
                                                                                                        based on observed data as well if no
                                                                                                        statistical dependency to the
                                                                                                        economic factors underlying the
                                                                                                        downturn          period      under
                                                                                                        consideration can be established.
                                                                                                        However, this approach is subject
                                                                                                        to a number of requirements
                                                                                                        ensuring a clear distinction from
                                                                                                        cases when type 3 methodologies
                                                                                                        need to be considered.
                                                                                                                                                            74

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                  Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                  the proposals
 Question 6: Do you expect that the total exposure amount or share which is treated with the policy proposed in section 7 is material?
 Question 7: Do you have specific examples of types of exposures which will fall under the policy proposed in section 7?
                               Many respondents stated that they do not expect the
                               application of type 3 methodology to cover material
                               portfolios.
                                                                                           It should be noted that paragraph 23 requires that
                                                                                           institutions ensure that the relevant loss data are
                                                                                           available during the downturn period under
                                                                                           consideration as well as during an appropriate period
                                                                                           before and after the downturn period under
                                                                                           consideration.
                               Several respondents highlighted that they are concerned     Moreover, it should be noted that paragraph 27(b)
                               that low default portfolios might be perfect candidates for explicitly tackles the problem of scarce loss data by
                               the application of the type 3 methodology in the light of   requiring that, if only sparse relevant loss data are
                               the limited number of defaulted exposures modelled.         available on an annual basis, institutions should
                                                                                           merge consecutive years of observations if they are
                                                                                           deemed to add value to the analysis.
                                                                                           In this context, it should also be noted that the CRR
                                                                                           sets out (in Article 179(2)) explicit requirements for
                                                                                           the use of pooled data for the purpose of risk
                                                                                           parameter quantification.
                               One respondent also highlighted that corporate exposures
                               not secured by real estate might be subject to the          See answer above.
                               application of section 7.
                                                                                                                                                                75

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                   the proposals
                                                                                            The EBA considers that type 2 approaches should be
                                                                                            used if a portfolio under consideration has not yet
                                                                                            experienced a downturn.
                               One respondent, however, enquired whether type 3
                               methodology is explicitly intended by the EBA to cover       Regarding newly established portfolios, these may
                               newly established portfolios or portfolios that have not yet indeed be candidates for type 3 approaches.
                               experienced a downturn.                                      However, if for example pooled data are available for
                                                                                            such a portfolio, a type 2 approach may be possible
                                                                                            and should be used if possible in accordance with
                                                                                            paragraph 24 of the GL.
                                                                                            It should be noted that there could be multiple
                                                                                            downturn periods. The downturn period which is
                               In addition, one respondent would like the EBA to clarify
                                                                                            already captured may not be the most relevant one
                               that section 7 should never be applied to portfolios with
                                                                                            to the portfolio under consideration. An example of
                               long time series which already capture a downturn period.
                                                                                            this situation is provided in the Background and
                                                                                            rationale (Example 1).
 Question 8: Do you agree to require a minimum MoC quantified via a fixed add-on to the long-run average LGD? If not, which of the alternatives
 should be considered? Do you see reasons for differentiating the fixed add-on according to exposure classes?
 Question 9: Do you agree to the minimum MoC as the max(0,min(20%, 105% - LRAVLGD)?
                                                                                            It should be recalled that type 3 approaches are       The minimum MoC
                                                                                            applied if the impact of a downturn period can neither requirement      in
                               Five respondents raised the issue of the excessive           be assessed based on observed loss data nor be         paragraph 36    has
                               conservativeness of the MoC calibrated as an additional      estimated using a type 2 approach. Thus it is also     been lowered to a
                               add-on of 20% and said that it lacked a rationale.           challenging to calibrate an appropriate add-on, which  15% add-on to the
                                                                                            has therefore been chosen to be sufficiently           long-run    average
                                                                                            conservative.                                          LGD.
                                                                                                                                                                  76

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
                                                                                                                                                     The minimum MoC
                                                                                            As pointed out above, the calibration of an              requirement       in
                               Moreover, three respondents suggested differentiating
                                                                                            appropriate add-on is challenging in the light of the    paragraph 36     has
                               the 20% add-on on the basis of the type of exposure
                                                                                            nature of type 3 approaches. Therefore, a further        been lowered to a
                               (portfolios) (e.g. 20% add-on for non-retail exposures, X%
                                                                                            differentiation of the add-on has not been               15% add-on to the
                               for retail ones).
                                                                                            considered.                                              long-run    average
                                                                                                                                                     LGD.
                               Two respondents perceived the 105% cap as being              The EBA considers that a downturn could indeed
                               unjustified, and highlighted that the definition of a cap    cause LGDs higher than 100% in the light of prolonged
                               higher than 100% lacks a rationale.                          workout times.
                                                                                            As pointed out in paragraph 19 of the Background and
                                                                                            rationale, it is expected that type 3 approaches will be
                                                                                            considered only in exceptional cases. Moreover, to
                               Another respondent suggested that the EBA perform a
                                                                                            ensure that the waiver for downturn periods which
                               quantitative impact study in order to assess the impact of
                                                                                            require a type 3 approach as set out in
                               the measure.
                                                                                            paragraph 15(a)(iv) will not be used excessively or
                                                                                            inappropriately, the EBA will monitor the use of
                                                                                            type 3 approaches.
 Question 10: Is the policy regarding the reference value sufficiently clear? Alongside the potentially limited applicability of the reference value to
 the downturn LGD estimation according to paragraphs 18-19-20, for what reasons could the reference value feasibly be omitted? Do you agree to
 the proposed clarification of the role of the reference value?
                                                                                            The EBA has clarified the role of the reference value
                               A majority of respondents questioned the use of the          as a non-binding challenger. In particular,              Paragraphs 18 and
                               reference value, referring to its inappropriateness and lack paragraph 19 points out that a material difference       19     have    been
                               of comparability in the light of the lack of linkage of its  between the final downturn LGD plus final MoC and        amended.
                               results to the actual downturn conditions                    the reference value can be justified if the period of
                                                                                            losses identified by the reference value does not stem
                                                                                                                                                                     77

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                                EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
                                                                                            from a — potentially unidentified — downturn
                                                                                            period.
                                                                                            It is clarified in paragraph 19 that the reference value
                               One respondent claimed that using the reference value as     does not represent a floor. It is explicitly stated that
                               a challenger would work for type 3 models only, while for    ‘After the institution has re-assessed its               Paragraphs 18 and
                               sounder type 1 models the reference value might be           quantification of downturn LGD, and the                  19     have   been
                               inappropriate, as it might represent a floor difficult to    methodology is assessed to be adequate, a material       amended.
                               compare with the results from the models.                    difference from the reference value can be
                                                                                            explained.’
                               Several respondents pointed out that it might
                                                                                            The EBA considers it should be in the institution’s own
                               disincentivise banks from investing in more efficient
                                                                                            interest to invest in efficient recovery processes.
                               recovery processes.
                                                                                            As pointed out in the Background and rationale, the
                                                                                            EBA considers that the non-binding character of the
                                                                                            reference value should be noted. As stated in the
                               Some respondents pointed out that comparison in the          Background and rationale, the reference value will
                               case of type 1 and 2 methods is difficult and imposes an     generally not comply with the rules set out in these
                               additional burden of proof on the institutions. In the light GL and should therefore not be used as a calibration     Paragraphs 18 and
                               of that, some of the respondents proposed disregarding       target for downturn LGD estimation. The EBA              19     have   been
                               the reference value in the new framework or, instead,        considers the reference value nevertheless to be a       amended.
                               using it as a replacement for the type 3 approach currently  meaningful supervisory tool, which supports the
                               proposed.                                                    supervisory assessment of the resulting downturn
                                                                                            LGD estimates and can support institutions in
                                                                                            understanding the dynamics of their realised LGDs
                                                                                            over time.
                               Three respondents raised concerns about the robustness       The EBA discussed these concerns and amended
                                                                                                                                                     Section 8      and
                               of the reference value concept and the excessive volatility  section 8 and paragraphs 18 and 19, requiring the
                                                                                                                                                     paragraphs 18  and
                               of its results based on the consideration of loss rates and  comparison with the reference value at least at the
                                                                                                                                                                    78

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                               EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                               not on economic factors. More particularly, the results     level of calibration segments, which should limit the    19     have   been
                               might be heavily influenced by events not linked to         concern about robustness. Moreover, as stated            amended.
                               downturn conditions such as the presence of individually    above, paragraph 19 clarifies that a material
                               significant exposures entering default or the occurrence of difference between the final downturn LGD plus final
                               extraordinary events.                                       MoC and the reference value can be justified if the
                                                                                           period of losses identified by the reference value does
                                                                                           not stem from a — potentially unidentified —
                                                                                           downturn period.
                               Some respondents claimed that the reference value layer     The EBA considers that, in particular in those
                               of computation should be reconsidered whenever the two      situations, the use of the reference value as an
                               years with the highest losses are based on a low number     indicator for increased losses due to economic
                               of observations.                                            downturn conditions is not straightforward.
                                                                                           The EBA is aware of the inconsistency between the
                               A couple of respondents pointed out that the highest        reference value as an exposure-weighted quantity
                               realised ratio to the exposure value does not necessarily   and the downturn LGD as a case-weighted quantity.
                               have to be accompanied by the highest economic loss in      As pointed out above, the EBA nevertheless considers
                               the numerator in the case of greater portfolio exposure     the reference value to be a meaningful supervisory
                               fluctuations. The comparison of the LGD weighted by the     tool, which supports the supervisory assessment of
                               occurrences of default with an LGD weighted by the          the resulting downturn LGD estimates and can
                               exposure makes no sense.                                    support institutions in understanding the dynamics of
                                                                                           their realised LGDs over time.
                               Three respondents highlighted a lack of explanation of
                               how to treat the correlation among different intermediate
                               parameters of the calculation. In particular, the           The EBA discussed these concerns and amended             Section 8      and
                               respondents asked for clarity on (i) the way the reference  paragraphs 18 and 19, requiring the comparison with      paragraphs 18 and
                               value should be calculated, e.g. aggregating the reference  the reference value at least at the level of calibration 19     have   been
                               values for each model component together (i.e. [avg.        segments.                                                amended.
                               worst two cure rates + avg. worst two LGD secured]?) and
                               (ii) whether the two worst years over 20 years should be
                                                                                                                                                                   79

GL FOR THE ESTIMATION OF LGD APPROPRIATE FOR AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
 Comments                      Summary of responses received                                 EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
                               computed according to each axis of analysis (i.e. cured
                               losses, not-cured losses, probability of cure) or should be
                               determined once for all by the analysis of not-cured losses.
                                                                                             Paragraph 18 sets out the requirement to compare
                                                                                             the resulting downturn LGD with the reference value
                               One respondent pointed out that the reference value
                                                                                             calculated in accordance with section 8 on the
                               concept might not work at all for regression-type models
                                                                                             corresponding RDS and calculated at least at the level
                               producing a range of LGD estimates for each calibration
                                                                                             of calibration segments. In practice, for regression-
                               segment (not a unique single downturn LGD for each
                                                                                             type models this might require calculating the
                               calibration segment).
                                                                                             downturn LGDs for each facility in the RDS and
                                                                                             averaging it at the level of calibration segments.
                               Three commentators highlighted that using two years for
                                                                                             The EBA considers the average of two years to be
                               the calculation of the reference value could be insufficient,
                                                                                             appropriate to provide a simple non-binding
                               and proposed aligning its length with the longer duration
                                                                                             challenger value for downturn LGD calibration.
                               of a downturn.
                                                                                                                                                                  80

