 EBA/GL/2019/05
 9 December 2019
Final Report
Guidelines
on harmonised definitions and templates for funding plans of
credit institutions under Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS
OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
Contents
1. Executive summary                                                                          3
2. Background and rationale                                                                   4
3. Guidelines on harmonised definitions and templates for funding plans of credit institutions
under Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2                                                        7
4. Accompanying documents                                                                    17
4.1    Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment                                         17
4.2    Feedback on the public consultation                                                   21
                                                                                               2

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS
OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
1. Executive Summary
1.        These draft guidelines are an update of the EBA guidelines on harmonised definitions and
templates for funding plans of credit institutions under Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2
(EBA/GL/2014/04) issued on 19 June 2014. EBA/GL/2014/04 will be repealed from the date these
draft guidelines come into force.
2.        The update is based on experience gained through analysing the data received as well as
due to the questions raised via the EBA Single Rulebook Q&A tool 1 . A detailed set of instructions
has been included to facilitate harmonised implementation and reduce implementation burden.
The templates have been revised and updated reflecting lessons learnt in analysing and validating
banks’ funding plans (see reports published in 2017 and 2018 2 ) and aim to better align with the
definitions used in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014 (the Reporting
Regulation) 3 .
3.        A new template for forecasting the statement of profit or loss has been introduced, with
the intention of monitoring trends over time in firms’ profitability and their impact in funding.
1 The EBA Single Rulebook Q&A tool can be accessed at https://eba.europa.eu/single-rule-book-qa
2 The reports can be accessed at https://eba.europa.eu/risk-analysis-and-data/risk-assessment-reports/thematic-reports
3 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014 of 16 April 2014 laying down implementing technical standards
with regard to supervisory reporting of institutions according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament
and of the Council (OJ L 191, 28.6.2014, p. 1).
                                                                                                                      3

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER
RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
2. Background and rationale
1. On 19 June 2014, the EBA issued guidelines on harmonised definitions and templates for funding
    plans of credit institutions under Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2 (EBA/GL/2014/04) 4 . These
    guidelines provided harmonised definitions and templates for the funding plans of credit
    institutions mainly as a response to the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) Recommendation
    2012/02 5 on the funding of credit institutions.
2. Based on the experience gained through assessing banks’ funding plans in 2017 and 2018 6 , and
    from the questions raised via the EBA Single Rulebook Q&A tool 7 , it is clear that there is a need to
    update the current templates and to provide detailed instructions.
3. The majority of the changes aim to align the definitions and breakdowns used in the guidelines with
    those used in the Financial Reporting Framework (FINREP). This will reduce uncertainty about its
    implementation, increase comparability and facilitate better and more automatic validations of
    data provided. This will result in an easier data production process for credit institutions and will
    ultimately deliver better data quality.
4. Other changes aim to improve the assessment of banks’ funding plans and the relevance of the
    data provided for such assessments. These changes are described in more detail in the following
    paragraphs.
5. Funding plans should be reported on a consolidated basis following the prudential scope at the
    highest level of consolidation in a Member State. The guidelines also clarify that the data should be
    reported on an individual basis when the entities are not part of a prudential group. In addition,
    competent authorities may also require data on an individual basis when deemed necessary for
    assessing individual institutions’ funding. The updated guidelines also clarify that liquidity ratios
    should be provided only when requested by Regulation 575/2013 and Commission Delegated
    Regulation (EU) 2015/61 and following the scope of application of those regulations.
6. The ESRB recommendation requires the EBA to assess the viability of funding plans for the Union
    banking system, on an aggregated basis. In order to be able to do a proper analysis at that level,
    the breakdown of the information between domestic and international activities is not enough and
    therefore it is proposed to split the breakdown of banks’ international activities into ‘other EEA
    countries activities’ and ‘non-EEA countries activities’. This also serves the objective of maintaining
    a Union-wide view.
4 The guidelines can be accessed at https://eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/liquidity-risk/guidelines-on-harmonised-
definitions-and-templates-for-funding-plans-of-credit-institutions/
5       The       English       text      of       the         recommendation         can      be       accessed       at
http://www.esrb.europa.eu/pub/pdf/recommendations/2012/ESRB_2012_2.en.pdf?04a855f6d5c296dd9ae9f6576d45bb33
or     OJ    2013/C     119/01.     Versions    in    the      other   official   languages    may     be    found     at
https://www.esrb.europa.eu/mppa/recommendations/html/index.en.htmlin the entry for 18 February 2013.
6 The reports can be accessed at https://eba.europa.eu/risk-analysis-and-data/risk-assessment-reports/thematic-reports
7 The EBA Single Rulebook Q&A tool can be accessed at https://eba.europa.eu/single-rule-book-qa
                                                                                                                       4

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER
RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
7. The current breakdowns of assets and liabilities in templates P01.01 and
    P01.02 have proven to be too restricted to understand the forecast of the balance sheet, with
    considerable amounts being provided as other assets and other liabilities. In order to tackle this
    and to have better information on the funding plans of the entities, further breakdowns have been
    included.
8. On the asset side, the revised breakdown includes all counterparty sectors for loans and advances
    (full alignment with FINREP table F 05.01) as well as debt securities and equity instruments (which
    were included in ‘other assets’ under the original guidelines). In addition, information on non-
    performing loans is also now required in order to understand the expected changes in the level of
    non-performing exposures following the introduction of the EBA guidelines on management of non-
    performing and forborne exposures. The forecast data input from credit institutions is expected to
    indicate the institutions’ management strategies to achieve sustainable reduction of NPEs on their
    balance sheets.
9. On the liability side, a further breakdown of total long-term unsecured debt securities issued has
    been incorporated. The breakdown includes different classes of issued debt instruments, i.e.
    Additional Tier 1 instruments, Tier 2 instruments, subordinated instruments and senior
    instruments, adding other long-term unsecured instruments as the remainder. These instruments
    have different risk structures and therefore also different pricing. The issuance and outstanding
    volumes of some of those instruments are directly related to the requirements issued by the
    respective regulations (Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 – “CRR”/ Directive 2013/36/EU – “CRD” and
    Directive 2014/59/UE – “BRRD”). For these reasons, the issuances and volumes of those different
    types of debt instruments should presumably be planned separately by banks and not as a single
    position. Such differentiation is also important for the validation of banks’ funding plans.
10. Due to the significant effect that the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and the net stable funding ratio
    (NSFR) could have on bank funding patterns, and in order to understand better their composition
    and projection, forecasts of their main contributors are now requested.
11. The issuance and redemptions of debt instruments, which were previously part of the balance-
    sheet liabilities template, are now covered in a separate template that includes further breakdowns
    of the instruments issued. The template reflects the composition of the liabilities, and thus
    differentiates between the main classes of total long-term unsecured and secured debt securities
    issued. In addition to the rows for the reporting of the maturing debt, the planned issuances for the
    secured instruments are split between those instruments issued and not retained by the institution
    and those that are retained. Retained instruments as part of an issuance are commonly used as
    collateral, for instance for central banks. These instruments are therefore not placed on financial
    markets, and should not need to be considered in any analysis related to primary market activity.
    Clarifications in the instructions have also been added to indicate that maturing instruments include
    those instruments that are contractually due to mature but also those bought back and redeemed
    or cancelled by an institution, for instance as part of a liability management exercise.
12. The template that covers public sector and central bank sources of funding has been further
    extended and now also includes national and supra-national term repo funding programmes with
    a maturity of less than 1 year, such as the ECB’s main refinancing operations. This expansion of the
    template will make sure that the dependency on central bank funding is reflected in full.
                                                                                                                  5

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER
RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
    Information on the direct financing provided by the public sector to the real
    economy by granting loans has been added, completing the view of public funding support. The
    latter requirement addressed several comments and questions received.
13. A complete new template on forecasting the statement of profit and loss has been introduced with
    the intention of monitoring trends over time in firms’ profitability and their impact on funding. This
    information enables the analysis of projected financial performance of the supervised entities and
    the viability of the institution’s business model in accordance with paragraphs 72(b), 74 and 76 of
    EBA/GL/2014/13 on common procedures and methodologies for the supervisory review and
    evaluation process (the SREP Guidelines) 8 . Being part of the funding plan templates, planned
    profitability can easily be set in relation to planned changes of assets and liabilities.
14. During the next 2 years, the need to issue MREL-eligible instruments and replacements of maturing
    central bank funding support for financial institutions are expected to be the key drivers for financial
    institutions’ funding market trends. However, the current version of the funding plan templates
    does not provide for any differentiation into different classes of unsecured and subordinated debt
    securities issued. Such differentiation is of particular relevance to and importance for the analysis
    of the funding plans and understanding the risks for banks’ funding, as they have different means
    and purposes as well as risk and pricing levels in banks’ funding mix.
15. Finally, the guidelines include some proportionality in order to reduce the reporting cost of small
    and non-complex credit institutions, as defined in point 145 of paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the CRR.
    Small and non-complex credit institutions, when they are requested to provide funding plan data
    following these guidelines, will have to provide information neither on asset and liability
    restructuring plans nor on assets and liabilities in foreign currency. Moreover, they will have to
    report the forecast of a simplified statement of profit and loss account.
8 The SREP Guidelines can be accessed at https://eba.europa.eu/-/eba-publishes-final-guidelines-on-srep-methodologies-
and-processes
                                                                                                                    6

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
3. Guidelines on harmonised
definitions and templates for funding
plans of credit institutions under
Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                            7

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
  EBA/GL/2019/05
  09 December 2019
Draft Guidelines
on harmonised definitions and
templates for funding plans of credit
institutions under Recommendation of
the European Systemic Risk Board of
20 December 2012 (ESRB/2012/2)
                                                                                                            8

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
1. Compliance and reporting
obligations
Status of these guidelines
1. This document contains guidelines issued pursuant to Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
     No 1093/2010 9 . In accordance with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent
     authorities and financial institutions must make every effort to comply with the guidelines.
2. Guidelines set the EBA’s view of appropriate supervisory practices within the European System
     of Financial Supervision or of how Union law should be applied in a particular area. Competent
     authorities as defined in Article 4(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 to whom guidelines apply
     should comply by incorporating them into their practices as appropriate (e.g. by amending their
     legal framework or their supervisory processes), including where guidelines are directed
     primarily at institutions.
Reporting requirements
3. According to Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, competent authorities must notify
     the EBA whether they comply or intend to comply with these guidelines, or otherwise with
     reasons for non-compliance, by 09.02.2020. In the absence of any notification by this deadline,
     competent authorities will be considered by the EBA to be non-compliant. Notifications should
     be sent by submitting the form available on the EBA website to compliance@eba.europa.eu
     with the reference ‘EBA/GL/2019/05’. Notifications should be submitted by persons with
     appropriate authority to report compliance on behalf of their competent authorities. Any
     change in the status of compliance must also be reported to the EBA.
4. Notifications will be published on the EBA website, in line with Article 16(3) of Regulation (EU)
     No 1093/2010.
9 Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing
Commission Decision 2009/78/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12).
                                                                                                             9

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
2. Subject matter, scope and definitions
Subject matter
5. These guidelines specify the content, instructions and uniform formats for the reporting of
     funding plans on the basis of paragraph 4 of Recommendation A of the Recommendation of
     the European Systemic Risk Board of 20 December 2012 on funding of credit institutions (‘ESRB
     Recommendations’ and ‘ESRB Recommendation A’) 10 .
Scope of application
6. Competent authorities should apply these guidelines on a consolidated basis in accordance
     with Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 11 .
7. Competent authorities should apply these guidelines on an individual basis in accordance with
      Chapter 1 of Title II of Part One of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 when the credit institutions
      referred to in paragraph 9 are not part of a group subject to consolidated supervision pursuant
      to Articles 111 and 112 of Directive 2013/36/EU 12 .
8. Notwithstanding paragraphs 6 and 7, competent authorities may also apply these guidelines
      on an individual basis in accordance with Chapter 1 of Title II of Part One of Regulation (EU)
      No 575/2013 for all institutions.
9. When applying these guidelines, competent authorities should ensure that the largest credit
      institutions in terms of volume of assets in each Member State are covered, and that the
      coverage amounts to at least 75% of the banking system’s total consolidated assets in that
      Member State.
10 Recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Board of 20 December 2012 on funding of credit institutions (OJ L
119, 25.4.2013, p. 1).
11 Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential
requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 Text with EEA
relevance (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
12 Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit
institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC
and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
                                                                                                                     10

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
Addressees
10. These guidelines are addressed to competent authorities as defined in point (i) of point (2) of
       Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 and to credit institutions that report funding plans
       to their competent authorities, in accordance with the national implementation framework of
       the ESRB Recommendations and the scope of application of these guidelines.
Definitions
11. Unless otherwise specified, terms used and defined in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Regulation
       (EU) No 680/2014 13 and Regulation (EU) 2018/1624 14 have the same meaning in the guidelines.
13  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014 of 16 April 2014 laying down implementing technical
standards with regard to supervisory reporting of institutions according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European
Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 191, 28.6.2014, p. 1).
14 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1624 of 23 October 2018 laying down implementing technical
standards with regard to procedures and standard forms and templates for the provision of information for the purposes
of resolution plans for credit institutions and investment firms pursuant to Directive 2014/59/EU of the European
Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1066 (OJ L 277, 7.11.2018,
p. 1).
                                                                                                                    11

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
3. Implementation
Date of application
12. These guidelines apply from 31 December 2020.
Repeal
13. The EBA guidelines on harmonised definitions and templates for funding plans of credit
     institutions under Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2 (EBA/GL/2014/04) of 19 June 201415
     are repealed with effect from 31 December 2020.
15  The guidelines can be accessed at https://eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/liquidity-risk/guidelines-on-
harmonised-definitions-and-templates-for-funding-plans-of-credit-institutions/
                                                                                                            12

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
4. Requirements for reporting of
funding plans
14. Credit institutions should report their funding plans in accordance with the harmonised
     instructions and templates referred to in Annex I and Annex II to these guidelines.
15. Competent authorities should also provide the EBA with full transparency on the scope of
     application of these guidelines and an explanation of how the guidance referred to in
     paragraph 9 has been observed.
4.1 Reporting format
16. Credit institutions should submit the information referred to in these guidelines in the data
     exchange formats and representations specified by competent authorities, respecting the data
     point definition included in the data point model referred to in Annex XIV and the validation
     formulae specified in Annex XV of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 680/2014, as
     well as the following specifications:
     (a) information that is not required or not applicable should not be included in a data
            submission;
     (b) numeric values should be submitted as facts according to the following:
         i.    data points with the data type ‘Monetary’ should be reported using a minimum
               precision equivalent to millions of units;
        ii.    data points with the data type ‘Percentage’ should be expressed as per unit with a
               minimum precision equivalent to four decimals;
       iii.    data points with the data type ‘Integer’ should be reported using no decimals and a
               precision equivalent to units.
17. The data submitted by the credit institutions should be associated with the following
     information:
     (a) reporting reference date and reference period;
     (b) reporting currency;
     (c) accounting standard;
     (d) identifier of the reporting institution;
     (e) level of application as individual or consolidated.
                                                                                                            13

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
4.2 Frequency, reporting reference date and remittance date
18. Credit institutions should submit the information with an annual frequency.
19. Credit institutions should report their funding plans in accordance with these guidelines by
     15 March with a reference date of 31 December of the previous year.
20. Where credit institutions are permitted by national laws to report their financial information
     based on their accounting year-end, which deviates from the calendar year-end, the latest
     available accounting year-end should be considered as the reference date.
                                                                                                            14

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
Annex I – Instructions
                                                                                                            15

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
Annex II – Templates
                                                                                                            16

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
4. Accompanying documents
4.1 Draft cost-benefit analysis/impact assessment
21. As per Article 16(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 (EBA Regulation), any guidelines and
     recommendations developed by the EBA shall be accompanied by an Impact Assessment (IA)
     which analyses ‘the potential related costs and benefits’.
22. This analysis presents the impact assessment of the main policy options included in the
     Consultation Paper on the draft guidelines on harmonised definitions and templates for funding
     plans of credit institutions under Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2. The impact assessment
     is high level and qualitative in nature.
A. Problem identification
23. Some issues were identified as part of the implementation of the EBA Guidelines on
     harmonised definitions and templates for funding plans of credit institutions under
     Recommendation A4 of ESRB/2012/2 (EBA/GL/2014/04), which were issued in 2014.
     Specifically, the Q&A process and analysis of the data submitted made clear that some
     clarifications and changes to the templates would be beneficial or in some cases indeed
     necessary.
24. Clarifications and changes relate to a lack of alignment with FINREP reporting templates,
     insufficient granularity of data, missing information on Profit or Loss (P&L), and a lack of explicit
     instructions for filling in the templates. Changes also relate to the structure of market funding
     liabilities, mainly in the area of secured and unsecured debt securities, aiming to align them to
     common debt market practice (issuers’ and investors’ views). Modifications of the latter
     include for example splitting unsecured and subordinated funding into Additional Tier 1 (AT1),
     Tier 2 (T2), non-preferred senior unsecured instruments and other unsecured instruments.
B. Policy objectives
25. These draft guidelines aim to address the identified issues through revised and new templates
     and explicit instructions for filling out the templates. The aim is to improve clarity, enhance
     data quality and reduce banks’ reporting burden in those areas where items overlap with
     FINREP.
C. Options considered, assessment of the options and preferred options
26. Section C presents the main policy options discussed and the decisions made during the
     development of the draft guidelines. Advantages and disadvantages, potential costs and
                                                                                                            17

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
      benefits of the policy options, and the preferred options resulting from this analysis are
      reported.
Remove reporting uncertainty: consistency of funding plan templates with FINREP
27. Option 1a: For items included in both funding plan and FINREP reporting, make explicit
      references to FINREP in the funding plans to ensure consistency. Apart from that, keep the
      templates and guidelines unchanged.
28. Option 1b: For items included in both funding plan and FINREP reporting, make explicit
      references to FINREP in new instructions to the funding plans to ensure consistency, and fully
      align the wording and definitions (by changing the wording in the funding plans where
      necessary). In addition, introduce some changes in the funding plan templates to further
      increase the alignment with FINREP.
29. The current balance-sheet templates in the funding plan templates show several mis-
      alignments with FINREP. Discrepancies in items’ definitions, titles and scope prevent more
      streamlined and efficient production of the data required by banks. Improved consistency has
      been one of the key motivations behind the adjustment of the funding plan templates.
30. There are various ways to achieve this. Keeping the existing templates and merely establishing
      references to the FINREP templates would imply minimum change in implementation practices;
      however, it would require banks to go back and forth between FINREP and funding plan
      templates. Importantly, it would only achieve a very limited degree of consistency. Option 1a
      has therefore been eliminated.
31. In addition to making references to FINREP, making targeted changes to the existing funding
      plan templates allows a far greater degree of consistency. This is proposed by actually aligning
      definitions and naming conventions of items included in both reporting frameworks with those
      used in FINREP and adding some FINREP items to the funding plan scope. Newly added detailed
      instructions also make references to FINREP. This ensures improved clarity for banks while
      keeping the broader structure of the existing funding plan templates.
32. Making changes to align the definitions and wordings directly in the funding templates, in
      addition to providing references to FINREP, is viewed as more efficient, effective and user
      friendly. Option 1b has been assessed as the preferred option.
Filling data gaps and improving the relevance of the data
33. Option 2a: Include new and more granular data items to reflect recent regulatory and market
      developments.
34. Option 2b: Stick to a more aggregated data presentation and keep the status quo.
35. Data collection, analysis and developments in markets and the regulatory framework over
      recent years have exposed several data gaps and room for improvement in the current funding
                                                                                                            18

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
     plan templates. In particular, regulatory developments have revealed the need to adapt the
     collected data in order to be able to continue making meaningful and relevant analyses of the
     market and banking sector going forward. These include for instance the reflection of different
     instruments of debt securities issued, such as their split into AT1, T2, non-preferred senior
     unsecured instruments and other unsecured instruments in actual data and the forecast years.
36. It was assessed that meaningful and relevant analyses would not be possible if the templates
     were kept in their current form under Option 2b. This was hence excluded.
37. As part of the preferred Option 2a, several changes have therefore been proposed in the draft
     new funding plan templates. These changes include a more granular split-up of various debt
     securities under the liabilities table, adding details on the nominator and denominator of the
     LCR and NSFR, more details on public funding sources, an additional breakdown of international
     exposures into European Economic Area (EEA) and non-EEA, foreign exchange (FX) funding data
     now taking into account any hedging done by the institution by means of FX forwards, FX swaps
     or cross-currency swaps, and the inclusion of a template of a P&L forecast.
D. Conclusion
38. It is not possible to quantify the overall costs or benefits of the change in funding plan reporting
     proposed through the draft guidelines and revised templates.
39. However, the benefits of the amendments proposed in these draft guidelines on harmonised
     definitions and templates for funding plans of credit institutions are expected to outweigh the
     costs, not least given that they reflect comments and lessons learnt from the practical
     application of the previous guidelines, and aim to address any deficiencies/issues that have
     transpired from the previous templates. Most importantly, they aim to ensure that data
     collection and analysis remain up to date with regulatory and market developments. The
     revised templates should better reflect, for instance, banks’ approach to planning different
     kinds of classes of debt securities issued (e.g. AT1, T2, non-preferred senior unsecured
     instruments and other unsecured instruments), which in turn have different means and
     purposes as well as risk levels in banks’ funding mix.
40. Three key improvements of the draft guidelines can be highlighted in particular.
      a) Reduce uncertainty and increase comparability of data: the instructions provided and the
           alignment of definitions and wordings with FINREP templates (where applicable) will
           ensure clarity for banks and improved comparability of data.
      b) Ease the burden on banks by facilitating automatic validation of the data and enhancing
           their quality: aligning the funding plan templates’ wordings and definitions with FINREP
           templates (where applicable) should ease the reporting burden on banks and at the same
           time improve data quality, as it should streamline the data-reporting process.
                                                                                                            19

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
      c) Improve the relevance of the assessment of funding plans: increased granularity and
          additional data items – including a P&L forecast – in the draft guidelines and revised
          templates enable a funding plan assessment that reflects the most relevant issues, market
          and regulatory developments, and questions raised via the EBA Single Rulebook Q&A tool.
                                                                                                            20

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
4.2 Feedback on the public consultation
41. The EBA publicly consulted on the draft proposal contained in this paper.
42. The consultation period lasted for 2 months and ended on 5 May 2019. Seven responses were
     received, of which six were published on the EBA website.
43. This paper presents a summary of the key points and other comments arising from the
     consultation, the analysis and discussion triggered by these comments, and the actions taken
     to address them if deemed necessary.
44. In many cases several industry bodies made similar comments or the same body repeated its
     comments in response to different questions. In such cases, the comments and the EBA’s
     analysis are included in the section of this paper where the EBA considers them most
     appropriate.
45. Changes to the guidelines have been incorporated as a result of the responses received during
     the public consultation.
Summary of key issues and the EBA’s response
46. In general, the respondents welcomes the EBA’s review of the funding plans of credit
     institutions.
47. However, the following major concerns were raised by some respondents:
     •    the reasoning for the alignment with FINREP;
     •    the level of consolidation required for the provision of funding plans data;
     •    the remittance date.
The reasoning for the alignment with FINREP
48. One respondent does not understand the alignment with FINREP, as it is not aligned with how
     institutions manage their liquidity. The respondent considers the funding plan reports to be
     parts of the liquidity reports and therefore suggests that the terms and concepts should be
     aligned with liquidity.
49. Another respondent considers that in most credit institutions the planning process is not
     geared by FINREP items.
50. However, the EBA considers that the funding plan guidelines are focused on coherent reporting
     of planned assets and liabilities, as they are, for example, reflected in institutions’ balance
     sheets. Making clear references to FINREP aims to increase comparability across time, across
     Member States and across the EEA.
                                                                                                            21

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
The level of consolidation required for the provision of funding plans data
51. Two respondents consider that the highest level of consolidation in a Member State following
     the prudential scope of consolidation may not be the most appropriate for funding plan
     reporting, either because this is not the way planning is done at the institutions or because the
     different funding structures of different type of banks may give a non-meaningful picture of
     funding when data are asked for at consolidated level.
52. The EBA believes that applying the same level of consolidation aims to increase comparability
     across time, across Member States and across the EEA. It also fosters the assessment of funding
     plans at Union level on an aggregated basis (ESRB Recommendation A5).
The remittance date
53. Some respondents indicated that a later remittance date would allow firms with a December
     year-end date sufficient time to provide more precise 3-year forecasts. To take this comment
     into account, the EBA has postponed the remittance date to 15 March.
54. A summary of these concerns together with a more detailed EBA analysis and the rest of the
     feedback received is available in the table below.
55. The EBA has carefully considered all responses and revised the guidelines where appropriate.
                                                                                                            22

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
Summary of responses to the consultation and the EBA’s analysis
                                                                                                                                                       Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                       the proposals
  General comments
  Funding Plans (FP) reporting      While most of the stakeholders (four stakeholders        The funding plan guidelines are focused on a coherent No amendment.
  alignment with FINREP, and the    explicitly agree and one states no objection)            reporting of planned assets and liabilities, as they are,
  objective and rationale of the    support the harmonisation and alignment of the FP        for example, reflected in institutions’ balance sheets.
  FP reports                        with FINREP to develop further consistency in
                                                                                             Planned equity and the planned profit and loss
                                    reporting, two stakeholders questioned the
                                                                                             account presumably form an integral part of banks’
                                    purpose of the FP proposal in relation to monitoring
                                                                                             planning process and as such are an integral part of
                                    the liquidity risk profiles of the institutions.
                                                                                             the funding plan guidelines. This is reflected in the
                                    The main arguments against the alignment are the fact that the planned profit and loss account was
                                    following:                                               added to the funding plan guidelines and not to
                                                                                             FINREP.
                                    i) The requested data are more suited to a 3-years-
                                    forward balance sheet given budget assumptions or The comparability with FINREP aims to ensure
                                    to a resolution plan than to the way institutions common definitions and a common understanding.
                                    manage their liquidity. It is complicated to reconcile The comparability with FINREP also aims to ensure
                                    FP reports with liquidity-reporting definitions and that forecast data can be compared with historical
                                    breakdowns, of which the data are yet to be used to data (historical volumes and asset composition,
                                    complete the templates and the scope and historical liability composition, historical profitability
                                    methodologies are different.                             and its composition).
                                    ii) Institutions’ management and planning are            This approach of having clear references to FINREP, as
                                    carried out on the basis of the items relevant to        well as applying the same level of consolidation, aims
                                    commercial law and for internal management               to increase comparability across time, across
                                    purposes. There are no FINREP-based management           Member States and across the EEA.
                                    requirements.
                                    iii) The use of FINREP data as a reference to
                                    complete funding plan templates obliges
                                    institutions to dedicate people to the completion of
                                                                                                                                                                     23

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                   the proposals
                                    the funding plan template, whereas funding plan
                                    templates are considered disconnected from risk
                                    management figures and not re-used for the
                                    management of institutions. To better assess the
                                    institutions’ funding plans, they suggest reviewing
                                    the funding plan reporting to better align its
                                    components with definitions actually used by
                                    operational teams within the institutions to steer
                                    the funding plans and, more broadly, the liquidity
                                    position on a prospective basis. The alignment has
                                    unintended consequences and creates additional
                                    burden by widening the scope.
                                    iv) Given the liquidity nature of the FP reporting, the
                                    breakdown of assets and liabilities should be
                                    aligned with liquidity definitions of the LCR, NSFR or
                                    ALMM (contractual maturity ladder template for
                                    instance). It is the best solution to make sure that
                                    the institutions take ownership of these funding
                                    plan regulatory templates within their internal
                                    management policies.
  Remittance date                   Some stakeholders suggested moving the proposed          The EBA acknowledges time constraints banks may       The EBA amended
                                    submission date (28 February) to a later date, e.g.      have in reporting accurate forecasts. Therefore, the  the relevant text in
                                    31 March or 30 April. According to the comments          EBA has revised the remittance date for banks’ FP     the       guidelines
                                    this would allow firms with a December year-end          reporting from 28 February to 15 March.               accordingly.
                                    date to have sufficient time to provide more precise
                                    3-year forecasts. One stakeholder considers that a
                                    4-month period between the reference date and
                                    submission date would strike an appropriate
                                    balance between the immediacy of data and its
                                    accuracy and precision.
                                                                                                                                                                   24

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                             EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
                                    It was also stated that within the first 2 months of a
                                    year banks prepare their financial statements and
                                    for their auditing.
  Level of consolidation            Two stakeholders commented on the level of                The approach of having clear references to FINREP, as  No amendment.
                                    consolidation for reporting.                              mentioned above, as well as applying the same level
                                                                                              of consolidation, as the CRR requires FINREP financial
                                    One stakeholder indicated that, in practice,
                                                                                              reporting only on a consolidated basis, aims to
                                    planning processes take place in some cases at
                                                                                              increase comparability across time, across Member
                                    institution level or at consolidated group level
                                                                                              States and across the EEA. It also fosters the
                                    under commercial law, but not at consolidated
                                                                                              assessment of funding plans at Union level on an
                                    group level under supervisory law, since at this
                                                                                              aggregated basis (ESRB Recommendation A5).
                                    level, taking into account the entities specifically
                                    included, no management requirement may
                                    effectively exist. He indicated that this is also in line
                                    with the view of the Banking Stakeholder Group
                                    when the EBA guidelines where introduced in 2014,
                                    i.e. the scope of consolidation should be based on
                                    the bank’s internal processes. The stakeholder
                                    therefore requested that the reporting requirement
                                    be maintained at the ‘appropriate level of
                                    consolidation’, as in the current guidelines.
                                    Similarly, another stakeholder indicated that there
                                    may be differences in the funding structures of
                                    different types of credit institutions and a
                                    consolidated report may not be representative.
                                    Therefore, he asked for supervisory discretion
                                    regarding the level of consolidation, whether
                                    individual or consolidated.
  Proportionality                   According to one comment, the requirement from The EBA agrees that some proportionality could be                  The   EBA    has
                                    the ESRB that 75% of bank assets in a market should achieved. Therefore, when a small and non-complex            amended        the
                                                                                                                                                                   25

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                      Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                      the proposals
                                    be included in funding plans reports implies that in     institution, as defined in Article 4(145) of the CRR, is instructions    and
                                    some countries not only big banks are covered by         required to report FP data, that institution will be templates
                                    this reporting obligation. Therefore, the                exempted from the reporting of templates P02.06 accordingly.
                                    stakeholder suggested graduating the size of the         (Assets and liabilities in foreign currency), and P02.07
                                    reporting templates for proportionality reasons.         and P02.08 (Assets and liabilities restructuring plan).
                                    Such graduation would be conceivable at the              In addition, a specific simplified P&L template has
                                    following points: LCR forecast, pricing and P&L. The     been created for small and non-complex institutions.
                                    stakeholder referred to the proportionality
                                    principle as one of the criteria for implementing
                                    ESRB          recommendations          (ESRB/2012/2,
                                    implementation criterion 1.c).
  P&L template (P04.00)             One stakeholder argued that template P04.00              The template included in the funding plan reports is     The      EBA    has
                                    (Statement of profit and loss) requires a detailed       already a simplified version of the one in FINREP. In    amended         the
                                    split in the 3-year forecast of income and expenses.     addition, a specific simplified P&L template has been    instructions    and
                                    Such a detailed split is not necessarily standard        created for small and non-complex institutions.          templates
                                    practice and the stakeholder would prefer a less                                                                  accordingly       to
                                    detailed statement of the forecast. It stated that a                                                              include a simplified
                                    solution could be reporting on total income,                                                                      template for small
                                    expenses, provisions and total profit and loss before                                                             and non-complex
                                    and after tax in the 3-year forecast. Alternatively,                                                              institutions.
                                    the reporting on detailed forecasts could be on a
                                    best effort basis.
  Responses to questions in Consultation Paper EBA/CP/2019/02
  Question 1 (on template P01.02 - Liabilities)
  1.1 Do respondents agree with the proposed breakdown of ‘Total long-term unsecured (original maturity >=1 year)”?
  1.2 Otherwise, which breakdown would you suggest?
                                                                                                                                                                     26

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                       Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                       the proposals
  Proposed breakdown of ‘Total All stakeholders agreed with the proposed The EBA acknowledges the agreement.                                           No amendments.
  long-term unsecured (original breakdown of the total long-term unsecured debt in
                                                                                             In terms of the use of the original maturity, the EBA
  maturity = 1 year)’               template on template P01.02.
                                                                                             believes that this concept reflects the funding
                                    However, two stakeholders proposed the structure of the institutions and presents an overview
                                    replacement of ‘original maturity’ with ‘residual of the composition of their funding more accurately.
                                    maturity’. They argued that this would be in line This would also allow the users of the data to see the
                                    with other regulatory metrics on liquidity.              changes in the funding structure, e.g. a shift from
                                                                                             long-term to short-term funding.
  Further                           One stakeholder argued the breakdown between             Please note that the ESRB recommendation requires         The      EBA  has
  clarification/consistency         ‘domestic activities’, ‘other EEA countries activities’  the EBA to assess the viability of funding plans for the  amended        the
                                    and ‘non-EEA countries activities’ is burdensome         Union banking system, on an aggregated basis. In          instructions
                                    and does not reflect the way institutions manage         order to be able to do a thorough analysis, the           accordingly.
                                    their liquidity on a prospective basis.                  breakdown of the information between domestic and
                                                                                             international activities is not enough and therefore it
                                    It should be specified whether the requirement to
                                                                                             is proposed to split the breakdown of banks’
                                    distinguish between domestic, other EEA and non-
                                                                                             international activities into ‘other EEA countries
                                    EEA activities applies to the country of residence of
                                                                                             activities’ and ‘non-EEA countries activities’. This also
                                    the counterparty or to the booking country of the
                                                                                             serves the objective to maintain a Union-wide view.
                                    transaction.
                                                                                             This argument is presented in the ‘Background and
                                                                                             rationale section’ of the CP.
                                                                                             The EBA agrees that further clarification is needed for
                                                                                             transactions in relation to other EEA and non-EEA
                                                                                             activities.
  Further      clarification    on  On template P01.02, the breakdown related to the The EBA acknowledges the comment and will not                     The      EBA  has
  impairment of NPLs                accumulated impairment of non-performing loans require information on the accumulated impairment                   amended        the
                                    should be removed because it does not reflect the of non-performing loans.                                         instructions
                                    way institutions manage their liquidity on a                                                                       accordingly.
                                    prospective basis.
                                                                                                                                                                     27

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
  Comments                            Summary of responses received                          EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
  Further                             One stakeholder raised specific points on P01.02:      The EBA is of the view that some comments are           No amendments.
  clarification/consistency                                                                  country specific and is not in favour of including
                                      • Row 010 of P01.02: in order to be consistent with
                                                                                             country-specific aspects in the templates. For
                                      row 020 in P01.01, change ‘Repurchase
                                                                                             example, requesting additional data on insured loans
                                      agreements’ into ‘Repurchase borrowings’.
                                                                                             may raise further questions around the type of
                                      • Row 070 of P01.02: insured loans (i.e. loans whose insurance and the product that is insured.
                                      performance is guaranteed by a dedicated
                                                                                             Secondly, for convenience and transparency
                                      counterparty) should be added.
                                                                                             purposes, the EBA is aligning, as much as possible, the
                                                                                             concepts used in the FP templates with the existing
                                                                                             reporting standards, i.e. FINREP. To this end, the EBA
                                                                                             aims to keep the concepts constant. In this case, the
                                                                                             EBA will keep the wording ‘repurchase agreements’
                                                                                             as it is.
  Question 2 (on template P02.02 - Public sector and Central Bank sources of funding)
  Template P02.02 has been expanded to include additional public sector and Central Bank sources of funding. Do respondent believe that now this template covers
  all forms of public sector and central bank sources of funding or should additional forms of sources be included?
  Expansion of the scope for          Stakeholders do not have objections to the
                                                                                             The EBA acknowledges the agreement.                     No amendments.
  public sector coverage              proposed coverage and they agreed with it.
  Question 3 (on template P02.06 - Two Largest Significant Currencies and Reporting Currency)
  3.1 Do respondents agree that information on currency breakdown after hedging (template P02.06) will provide effective insight into possible currency
  mismatches?
  3.2 Does the information reflect banks’ FX management approach or do you see the need to request more information to better reflect banks’ FX management?
  3.3 Are the instructions clear enough?
  3.4 If the instructions are not clear please indicate how they could be improved.
                                                                                                                                                                   28

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                        Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                        the proposals
  Currency breakdown and FX All stakeholders identified various shortcomings of The EBA acknowledges the comments. Following the                        The EBA amended
  management approach               the proposed template. They also requested further feedback received in the CP, the EBA has amended                 the template and the
                                    clarifications in the instructions document.             the template. Financial assets and liabilities should be   instructions
                                                                                             reported before hedging through, for example, FX           accordingly.
                                    Some stakeholders argued that banks often
                                                                                             swaps, FX forwards and cross-currency swaps, i.e. as
                                    undertake portfolio hedging and so the
                                                                                             it is in the current funding plans report. The section
                                    classification of asset and liability components only
                                                                                             will be called ‘Assets and liabilities in foreign currency
                                    may give regulators an erroneous picture, as that
                                                                                             and reporting currency’.
                                    would not appropriately represent the bank’s
                                    currency management. If the template is to be
                                    retained, some stakeholders recommended the
                                    addition of a separate, dedicated FX hedging
                                    category, with one line for assets and one line for
                                    liabilities.
                                    One stakeholder commented that the effect of FX
                                    hedging should not be taken into account in each
                                    line item of template P02.06. It would be more
                                    relevant to present all rows without the effect of FX
                                    hedging and a row ‘FX hedging’. In fact, FX hedging
                                    is not generally performed transaction by
                                    transaction but based on the overall FX exposure
                                    (macro-hedge).
  Clarification on largest material One stakeholder requested clarification on ‘largest      The EBA agrees with the suggestion and further             The EBA made
  currency                          material currency’. They asked if this has the same      alignment of the terminology and definitions. The          necessary
                                    meaning as ‘significant currency’ defined in the         template and instructions are now using ‘significant       amendments         to
                                    liquidity regulations (i.e. Article 415(1) of            currency’ as defined in Article 415(1) of the CRR.         template P02.06 and
                                    Regulation (UE) 575/2013 and Article 3 of                Please also note that, for the purposes of this            related instructions.
                                    Delegated Regulation (UE) 2015/61). If yes, then         template, institutions will report the two largest
                                    they asked for an alignment of the wording.              ‘significant currencies’ as well as the reporting
                                                                                             currency.
                                                                                                                                                                         29

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                    Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                    the proposals
  Clarification    on      currency One stakeholder asked for clarification of the The FP report used the term ‘currency mismatch’ as it            No amendments.
  mismatch                          definition of ‘currency mismatch’, i.e. it asked stands in the CRR. However, as explained in the EBA
                                    exactly how a currency mismatch is measured.             analysis of the comments on ‘Currency breakdown
                                                                                             and FX management approach’ above, the template
                                                                                             now will collect information not on currency
                                                                                             mismatches but on assets and liabilities in foreign
                                                                                             currencies and the reporting currency before
                                                                                             hedging.
  Further      clarification    on One stakeholder recognised that banks should              The reporting of currency mismatch also in the         No amendments.
  reporting currency in currency provide the information on structural currency              (home) reporting currency aims to reflect the idea
  mismatch                          mismatch not only for significant foreign currencies     that an institution might refinance business in the
                                    but also for the reporting currency. The stakeholder     country of residence through bonds denominated in
                                    questioned how currency mismatches in the (home)         currencies other than the one of that country.
                                    reporting currency can occur and therefore               However, as explained in the EBA analysis of the
                                    requested an explanation or clarification from the       comments on ‘Currency breakdown and FX
                                    EBA in this regard.                                      management approach’ above, the template now will
                                                                                             collect information not on currency mismatches but
                                                                                             on assets and liabilities in foreign currencies before
                                                                                             hedging.
  Question 4 (on template P05.00 - Debt securities: issuances and redemptions)
  Do respondents agree with the possibility to have “retained issuance” for each of the instruments included in template P05.00? If not, could you please indicate
  which ones should be maintained and which ones should not and the reasons for it?
  Retained issuance                 While some stakeholders indicated that this is           The EBA agrees with the comment. The EBA will          The EBA amended
                                    applicable to secured instruments, others argued         include ‘retained issuances’ data for secured debt     template P05.00.
                                    that only covered bonds can be retained.                 instruments only.
                                    One stakeholder questioned the existence of
                                    forecast figures for retained and non-retained debt
                                                                                                                                                                   30

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments to
  Comments                           Summary of responses received                           EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                   the proposals
                                     securities amounts and hence the possibility of the
                                     institutions reporting them.
  Question 5 (on template P05.00 - Debt securities: issuances and redemptions)
  5.1 Which methodology do you apply to calculate carrying amounts for future issuances (please describe as detailed as possible and highlight any problem with
  that calculation)?
  5.2 Are you of the opinion that reporting maturing and new issuance volumes (as defined in P05.00) as nominal amounts would better reflect your planning
  procedure and approach and do you believe that this alternative is preferable?
  Carrying amounts          versus While most stakeholders consider the use of The EBA will continue to ask for the carrying amount                No amendment.
  nominal amounts                    nominal amounts for the purposes of planning for consistency with FINREP and the template on
                                     issuances more relevant, some argued in favour of liabilities in the funding plans report.
                                     gross carrying amount for the funding plans
                                     reporting for further alignment with FINREP.
  Question 6 (on template P05.00 - Debt securities: issuances and redemptions)
  6.1 Do respondents believe that these movements [from one category to another] could occur too often or be big enough so that including them as inflows or
  outflows as explained above and in the instructions may distort the analysis of the information?
  6.2 If the answer to the 6.1 is positive, which would be the best way for the respondents to report this information?
  Movements of instruments Stakeholders do not believe that these movements The EBA acknowledges the comments received.                            No amendments.
  between categories                 could occur too often or be big enough that they
                                     would lead to any distortion in the analysis of the
                                     information.
  Question 7 (on alignment with FINREP as regards assets and liabilities)
  7.1 Do respondents agree with amending the templates to align definitions with FINREP? Are there other definitions that could be further aligned with other parts
  of the EBA supervisory reporting framework?
                                                                                                                                                                 31

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                     Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                     the proposals
  7.2 Do respondents agree that alignment of definitions will facilitate the reporting production process?
  7.3 Are there other aspects in the template design or further integration with FINREP reporting technical package that could help in the data production process?
  Alignment with FINREP             Most stakeholders support the alignment with             The EBA acknowledges the comments received.             No amendments.
                                    FINREP.
                                                                                             See also the comment and the EBA analysis of the
                                                                                             general comment ‘FP reporting alignment with
                                                                                             FINREP, and the objective and rationale of the FP
                                                                                             reports’ above.
  Further clarification/alignment   One stakeholder requested the inclusion of exact         With the introduction of the instructions document,     No amendments.
  on referencing to FINREP          FINREP references to FINREP data points in the           the exact references to FINREP templates have been
                                    format ‘Form.Column.Row’ especially for the              deleted while the reference to the FINREP
                                    reporting lines ‘050 Other Financial assets’ and ‘110    instructions are kept. Due to the different timing of
                                    other Financial Liabilities’. In addition to that,       the updates of the two reporting frameworks, it is not
                                    further information is needed on natural hedges.         desirable to make direct mapping to data points in the
                                                                                             guidelines. However, the EBA will design the
                                                                                             validation rules so that there is a cross-check between
                                                                                             the two reporting frameworks. The validation rules,
                                                                                             as always, will be available on the EBA website.
  Accounting standards              On the instructions document, one stakeholder            Validation rules for the purposes of FP reporting, as   No amendments.
                                    highlighted that, unlike for banks applying IFRS for     mentioned above, will account for institutions
                                    accounting purposes, for banks applying nGAAP            reporting FINREP under nGAAP in accordance with
                                    there is a lack of reference to FINREP templates.        Annex 4 of Commission Implementing Regulation
                                                                                             (EU) No 680/2014.
  Further clarification/alignment One stakeholder commented that instructions lack The instructions have been further clarified. Note that           The      EBA  has
                                    accuracy. For example, Assets (P01.01), Row 010: they should read ‘cash balances and cash balances at            amended
                                    the heading says ‘Cash and cash balances at central central banks’.                                              instructions
                                    banks’, whereas the instruction refers solely to the                                                             accordingly.
                                    definition of cash balances at central banks. It is not
                                                                                                                                                                   32

FINAL REPORT ON GUIDELINES ON HARMONISED DEFINITIONS AND TEMPLATES FOR FUNDING PLANS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNDER RECOMMENDATION A4 OF ESRB/2012/2
                                                                                                                                                   Amendments to
  Comments                          Summary of responses received                            EBA analysis
                                                                                                                                                   the proposals
                                    clear what the report is requesting in the designated
                                    cell. Is it only cash balances at central banks or
                                    Including cash balances?
                                    They also questioned other demand deposits that
                                    are included in FINREP reporting. Should the
                                    reporter need to consider them as well?
                                                                                                                                                                 33

